*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK 58572 ***











INDEX OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG WORKS

OF TOBIAS SMOLLETT



Compiled by David Widger





CONTENTS

##  THE EXPEDITION OF HUMPHRY CLINKER

TRAVELS THROUGH FRANCE AND ITALY

##  THE ADVENTURES OF PEREGRINE PICKLE

##  THE ADVENTURES OF RODERICK RANDOM

##  THE ADVENTURES OF SIR LAUNCELOT GREAVES

##  ADVENTURES OF FERDINAND COUNT FATHOM

##  HISTORY From WILLIAM and MARY to GEORGE II







TABLES OF CONTENTS OF VOLUMES

THE EXPEDITION OF HUMPHRY CLINKER by Tobias Smollett



CONTENTS

To Mr HENRY DAVIS, Bookseller, in London.

To the Revd. Mr JONATHAN DUSTWICH, atï¿½

THE EXPEDITION OF HUMPHRY CLINKER

To Dr LEWIS.

To Mrs GWYLLIM, house-keeper at Brambleton-hall.

To Sir WATKIN PHILLIPS, Bart. of Jesus college, Oxon.

To Mrs JERMYN at her house in Gloucester.

To Miss LAETITIA WILLIS, at Gloucester.

To Dr LEWIS.

To Miss LYDIA MELFORD.

To Sir WATKIN PHILLIPS, of Jesus college, Oxon.

To Sir WATKIN PHILLIPS, of Jesus college, Oxon.

To Dr LEWIS.

To Miss LETTY WILLIS, at Gloucester

To Sir WATKIN PHILLIPS, of Jesus college, Oxon.

To Dr LEWIS. BATH, April 23. DEAR DOCTOR,

To Miss WILLIS at Gloucester. BATH, April 26. MY DEAREST COMPANION,

To Mrs MARY JONES, at Brambleton-hall.

To Mrs GWYLLIM, house-keeper at Brambleton-hall.

To Dr LEWIS.

To Sir WATKIN PHILLIPS, of Jesus college, Oxon.

To Dr LEWIS.

To Miss LAETITIA WILLIS, at Gloucester.

To Sir WATKIN PHILLIPS, of Jesus college, Oxon.

To Dr LEWIS.

To Sir WATKIN PHILLIPS, of Jesus college, Oxon.

To Mrs MARY JONES, at Brambleton-hall.

To Sir WATKIN PHILLIPS, Bart. of Jesus college, Oxon.

To Dr LEWIS.

To Dr LEWIS.

To Sir WATKIN PHILLIPS, of Jesus college, Oxon.

To Dr LEWIS.

To Miss LAETITIA WILLIS, at Gloucester.

To Sir WATKIN PHILLIPS, of Jesus college, Oxon.

To Dr LEWIS.

To Mrs MARY JONES, at Brambleton-hall.

To Sir WATKIN PHILLIPS, of Jesus college, Oxon.

To Dr LEWIS.

To Sir WATKIN PHILLIPS, Bart. of Jesus college, Oxon.

To Miss LAETITIA WILLIS, at Gloucester.

To Sir WATKIN PHILLIPS, of Jesus college, Oxon.

To Dr LEWIS.

To Sir WATKIN PHILLIPS, of Jesus college, Oxon.

To Dr LEWIS.

To Mrs MARY JONES, at Brambleton-hall, &c.

To Mrs GWYLLIM, house-keeper at Brambleton-hall. MRS GWYLLIM,

To Sir WATKIN PHILLIPS, Bart. of Jesus college, Oxon.

To Dr LEWIS.

To Sir WATKIN PHILLIPS, Bart. of Jesus college, Oxon.

To Dr LEWIS.

To Sir WATKIN PHILLIPS, Bart of Jesus college, Oxon.

To Sir WATKIN PHILLIPS Bart. of Jesus college, Oxon.

To Dr LEWIS.

To Sir WATKIN PHILLIPS, Bart. at Oxon.

To Dr LEWIS.

To Mrs MARY JONES, at Brambleton-hall.

To Sir WATKIN PHILLIPS, Bart. of Jesus college, Oxon.

To Dr LEWIS.

To Sir WATKIN PHILLIPS, Bart. of Jesus college, Oxon.

To Dr LEWIS.

To Dr LEWIS.

To Miss LAETITIA WILLIS, at Gloucester.

To Mrs MARY JONES, at Brambleton-hall.

To Sir WATKIN PHILLIPS, Bart. at Oxon.

To Dr LEWIS.

To Mrs GWILLIM, house-keeper at Brambleton-hall.

To Dr LEWIS.

To Sir WATKIN PHILLIPS, Bart. of Jesus college, Oxon.

To Dr LEWIS.

To Sir WATKIN PHILLIPS, Bart. at Oxon.

To Mrs MARY JONES, at Brambleton-hall.

To Miss LAETITIA WILLIS, at Gloucester.

To Sir WATKIN PHILLIPS, Bart. of Jesus college, Oxon.

To Sir WATKIN PHILLIPS, Bart. of Jesus college, Oxon.

To Dr LEWIS.

To Dr LEWIS.

To Sir WATKIN PHILLIPS, Bart. at Oxon.

To Miss LAETITIA WILLIS, at Gloucester.

To Mrs JERMYN, at her house in Gloucester.

To Mrs MARY JONES, at Brambleton-hall.

To Dr LEWIS.

To Sir WATKIN PHILLIPS, Bart. at Oxon.

To Dr LEWIS.

To Mrs GWYLLIM, at Brambleton-hall.

To Mrs MARY JONES, at Brambleton-hall.

C4084 THE ADVENTURES OF

PEREGRINE PICKLE IN WHICH ARE INCLUDED MEMOIRS OF A LADY OF QUALITY By
Tobias Smollett VOLUME I.

>

CONTENTS CHAPTER I. 	An Account of Mr. Gamaliel Pickle-The Disposition
of his Sister described-He yields to her Solicitations, and returns to
the Country. CHAPTER II. 	He is made acquainted with the Characters of
Commodore Trunnion and his Adherents-Meets with them by Accident, and
contracts an Intimacy with that Commander. CHAPTER III. 	Mrs. Grizzle
exerts herself in finding a proper Match for her Brother; who is
accordingly introduced to the young Lady, whom he marries in due Season.
CHAPTER IV. 	The Behaviour of Mrs. Grizzle at the Wedding, with an
Account of the Guests. CHAPTER V. 	Mrs. Pickle assumes the Reins of
Government in her own Family-Her Sister-in-law undertakes an Enterprise
of great Moment, but is for some time diverted from her Purpose by a
very interesting Consideration. CHAPTER VI. 	Mrs. Grizzle is
indefatigable in gratifying her Sister's Longings-Peregrine is born, and
managed contrary to the Directions and Remonstrances of his Aunt, who is
disgusted upon that account, and resumes the Plan which she had before
rejected. CHAPTER VII. 	Divers Stratagems are invented and put in
practice, in order to overcome the obstinacy of Trunnion, who, at
length, is teased and tortured into the Noose of Wedlock. CHAPTER VIII.
Preparations are made for the Commodore's Wedding, which is delayed by
an Accident that hurried him the Lord knows whither. CHAPTER IX. 	He is
found by Lieutenant-Reconducted to his own House-Married to Mrs.
Grizzle, who meets with a small misfortune in the Night, and asserts her
Prerogative next Morning, in consequence of which her Husband's Eye is
endangered. CHAPTER X. 	The Commodore being in some cases restive, his
Lady has recourse to Artifice in the Establishment of her Throne-She
exhibits Symptoms of Pregnancy, to the unspeakable joy of Trunnion, who,
nevertheless, is balked in his expectation. CHAPTER XI. 	Mrs. Trunnion
erects a Tyranny in the Garrison, while her Husband conceives an
affection for his Nephew Perry, who manifests a peculiarity of
disposition even in his tender years. CHAPTER XII. 	Peregrine is sent to
a boarding-school-Becomes remarkable for his Genius and Ambition.
CHAPTER XIII. 	The Commodore takes Peregrine under his own care-The Boy
arrives at the Garrison-Is strangely received by his own Mother-Enters
into a Confederacy with Hatchway and Pipes, and executes a couple of
waggish Enterprises upon his Aunt. CHAPTER XIV. 	He is also, by their
device, engaged in an Adventure with the Exciseman, who does not find
his Account in his own Drollery. CHAPTER XV. 	The Commodore detects the
Machinations of the Conspirators, and hires a tutor for Peregrine, whom
he settles in Winchester School. CHAPTER XVI. 	Peregrine distinguishes
himself among his School-fellows, exposes his Tutor, and attracts the
particular Notice of the Master. CHAPTER XVII. 	He is concerned in a
dangerous Adventure with a certain Gardener-Sublimes his Ideas,
commences Gallant, and becomes acquainted with Miss Emily Gauntlet.
CHAPTER XVIII. 	He inquires into the Situation of this young Lady, with
whom he is enamoured-Elopes from School-Is found by the Lieutenant,
conveyed to Winchester, and sends a Letter with a copy of verses to his
Mistress. CHAPTER XIX. 	His Messenger meets with a Misfortune, to which
he applies a very extraordinary Expedient that is attended with strange
Consequences. CHAPTER XX. 	Peregrine is summoned to attend his Uncle-Is
more and more hated by his own Mother-Appeals to his Father, whose
Condescension is defeated by the Dominion of his Wife. CHAPTER XXI.
Trunnion is enraged at the conduct of Pickle-Peregrine resents the
Injustice of his Mother, to whom he explains his Sentiments in a Letter-
Is entered at the University of Oxford, where he signalizes himself as a
Youth of an enterprising Genius. CHAPTER XXII. 	He is insulted by his
Tutor, whom he lampoons-Makes a considerable Progress in Polite
Literature; and, in an Excursion to Windsor, meets with Emilia by
accident, and is very coldly received. CHAPTER XXIII. 	After sundry
unsuccessful Efforts, he finds means to come to an Explanation with his
Mistress; and a Reconciliation ensues. CHAPTER XXIV. 	He achieves an
Adventure at the Assembly, and quarrels with his Governor. CHAPTER XXV.
He receives a Letter from his Aunt, breaks with the Commodore, and
disobliges the Lieutenant, who, nevertheless, undertakes his Cause.
CHAPTER XXVI. 	He becomes Melancholy and Despondent-Is favoured with the
condescending Letter from his Uncle-Reconciles himself to his Governor,
and sets out with Emilia and her Friend for Mrs. Gauntlet's House.
CHAPTER XXVII. 	They meet with a dreadful Alarm on the Road-Arrive at
their Journey's end-Peregrine is introduced to Emily's Brother-These two
young Gentlemen misunderstand each other-Pickle departs for the
Garrison. CHAPTER XXVIII. 	Peregrine is overtaken by Mr. Gauntlet, with
whom he fights a Duel, and contracts an intimate Friendship-He arrives
at the Garrison, and finds his Mother as implacable as ever-He is
insulted by his Brother Gam, whose Preceptor he disciplines with a
Horsewhip. CHAPTER XXIX. 	He projects a plan of Revenge, which is
executed against the Curate. CHAPTER XXX. 	Mr. Sackbut and his Pupil
conspire against Peregrine, who, being apprised of their Design by his
Sister, takes measures for counterworking their Scheme, which is
executed by mistake upon Mr. Gauntlet-this young Soldier meets with a
cordial reception from the Commodore, who generously decoys him into his
own interest. CHAPTER XXXI. 	The two young Gentlemen display their
talents for Gallantry, in the course of which they are involved in a
ludicrous circumstance of Distress, and afterwards take Vengeance on the
Author of their Mishap. CHAPTER XXXII. 	The Commodore sends a Challenge
to Gamaliel, and is imposed upon by a waggish invention of the
Lieutenant, Peregrine, and Gauntlet. CHAPTER XXXIII. 	Peregrine takes
leave of his Aunt and Sister-Sets out from the Garrison-Parts with his
Uncle and Hatchway on the Road, and with his Governor arrives in safety
at Dover. CHAPTER XXXIV. 	He adjusts the Method of his Correspondence
with Gauntlet; meets by accident with an Italian Charlatan, and a
certain Apothecary, who proves to be a noted Character. CHAPTER XXXV.
He embarks for France-Is overtaken by a Storm-Is surprised with the
Appearance of Pipes-Lands at Calais, and has an Affray with the Officers
at the Custom-house. CHAPTER XXXVI. 	He makes a fruitless Attempt in
Gallantry-Departs for Boulogne, where he spends the evening with certain
English Exiles. CHAPTER XXXVII. 	Proceeds for the Capital-Takes up his
Lodging at Bernay, where he is overtaken by Mr. Hornbeck, whose Head he
longs to fortify. CHAPTER XXXVIII. 	They set out in company, breakfast
at Abbeville, dine at Amiens and, about eleven o'clock, arrive at
Chantilly where Peregrine executes a Plan which he had concerted upon
Hornbeck. CHAPTER XXXIX. 	He is involved in an Adventure at Paris, and
taken prisoner by the City Guard-Becomes acquainted with a French
Nobleman, who introduces him in the Beau Monde. CHAPTER XL. 	Acquires a
distinct Idea of the French Government-Quarrels with a Mousquetaire,
whom he afterwards fights and vanquishes, after having punished him for
interfering in his amorous Recreations. CHAPTER XLI. 	Mr. Jolter
threatens to leave him on account of his Misconduct, which he promises
to rectify; but his Resolution is defeated by the Impetuosity of his
Passions-He meets accidentally with Mrs. Hornbeck, who elopes with him
from her Husband, but is restored by the Interposition of the British
Ambassador. CHAPTER XLII. 	Peregrine resolves to return to England-Is
diverted with the odd Characters of two of his Countrymen, with whom he
contracts an acquaintance in the Apartments of the Palais Royal. CHAPTER
XLIII. 	He introduces his new Friends to Mr. Jolter, with whom the
Doctor enters into a Dispute upon Government, which had well nigh
terminated in open War. CHAPTER XLIV. 	The Doctor prepares an
Entertainment in the Manner of the Ancients, which is attended with
divers ridiculous Circumstances. CHAPTER XLV. 	The Painter is persuaded
to accompany Pickle to a Masquerade in Woman's Apparel--Is engaged in a
troublesome Adventure, and, with his Companion, conveyed to the
Bastille. CHAPTER XLVI. 	By the Fidelity of Pipes, Jolter is informed of
his Pupil's fate-Confers with the Physician-Applies to the Ambassador,
who, with great difficulty, obtains the Discharge of the Prisoners on
certain Conditions. CHAPTER XLVII. 	Peregrine makes himself Merry at the
Expense of the Painter, who curses his Landlady, and breaks with the
Doctor. CHAPTER XLVIII. 	Pallet conceives a hearty Contempt for his
Fellow-traveller, and attaches himself to Pickle, who, nevertheless,
persecutes him with his mischievous Talent upon the Road to Flanders.
CHAPTER XLIX. 	Nor is the Physician sacred from his Ridicule-They reach
Arras, where our Adventurer engages in Play with two French Officers,
who, next Morning, give the Landlord an interesting Proof of their
Importance. CHAPTER L. 	Peregrine moralizes upon their Behaviour, which
is condemned by the Doctor, and defended by the Governor-They arrive in
safety at Lisle, dine at an Ordinary, visit the Citadel-The Physician
quarrels with a North Briton, who is put in Arrest. CHAPTER LI. 	Pickle
engages with a Knight of Malta, in a Conversation upon the English
Stage, which is followed by a Dissertation on the Theatres of the
Ancients, by the Doctor. CHAPTER LII. 	An Adventure happens to Pipes, in
consequence of which he is dismissed from Peregrine's Service-The whole
Company set out for Ghent, in the Diligence-Our Hero is captivated by a
Lady in that Carriage-Interests her spiritual Director in his behalf.
CHAPTER LIII. 	He makes some Progress in her Affections-Is interrupted
by a Dispute between Jolter and the Jew-Appeases the Wrath of the
Capuchin, who procures for him an interview with his fair Enslaver, in
which he finds himself deceived. CHAPTER LIV. 	He makes another Effort
to towards the Accomplishment of his Wish, which is postponed by a
strange Accident. CHAPTER LV. 	They depart from Ghent-Our Hero engages
in a Political Dispute with his Mistress, whom he offends, and pacifies
with Submission-He practises an Expedient to detain the Carriage at
Alost, and confirms the Priest in his Interest. CHAPTER LVI. 	The French
Coquette entraps the Heart of the Jew, against whom Pallet enters into a
Conspiracy, by which Peregrine is again disappointed, and the Hebrew's
Incontinence exposed. CHAPTER LVII. 	Pallet endeavouring to unravel the
Mystery of the Treatment he had received, falls out of the Frying-pan
into the Fire. CHAPTER LVIII. 	Peregrine, almost distracted with his
Disappointment, conjures the fair Fleming to permit his Visits at
Brussels-She withdraws from his Pursuit. CHAPTER LIX. 	Peregrine meets
with Mrs. Hornbeck, and is consoled for his Loss-His Valet-de-chambre is
embroiled with her Duenna, whom, however, he finds means to appease.
CHAPTER LX. 	Hornbeck is informed of his Wife's Adventure with
Peregrine, for whom he prepares a Stratagem, which is rendered
ineffectual by the Information of Pipes-The Husband is ducked for his
Intention, and our Hero apprehended by the Patrol. CHAPTER LXI.
Peregrine is released-Jolter confounded at his mysterious Conduct-A
Contest happens between the Poet and Painter, who are reconciled by the
Mediation of their Fellow-Travellers. CHAPTER LXII. 	The Travellers
depart for Antwerp, at which place the Painter gives a loose to his
Enthusiasm. CHAPTER LXIII. 	Peregrine artfully foments a Quarrel between
Pallet and the Physician, who fight a Duel on the Ramparts. CHAPTER
LXIV. 	The Doctor exults in his Victory-They set out for Rotterdam,
where they are entertained by two Dutch Gentlemen in a Yacht, which is
overturned in the Maese, to the manifest hazard of the Painter's Life-
They spend the Evening with their Entertainers, and next Day visit a
Cabinet of Curiosities. CHAPTER LXV. 	They proceed to the Hague; from
whence they depart for Amsterdam, where they see a Dutch Tragedy-Visit
the Music-house, in which Peregrine quarrels with the Captain of a Man-
of-War-They pass through Haerlem, in their way to Leyden-Return to
Rotterdam, where the Company separates, and our Hero, with his
Attendants, arrive in safety at Harwich. CHAPTER LXVI. 	Peregrine
delivers his Letters of Recommendation at London, and returns to the
Garrison, to the unspeakable joy of the Commodore and his whole Family.
CHAPTER LXVII. 	Sees his Sister happily married-Visits Emilia, who
receives him according to his Deserts. CHAPTER LXVIII. 	He attends his
Uncle with great Affection during a Fit of Illness-Sets out again for
London-Meets with his Friend Godfrey, who is prevailed upon to accompany
him to Bath; on the Road to which Place they chance to Dine with a
Person who entertains them with a curious Account of a certain Company
of Adventurers. CHAPTER LXIX. 	Godfrey executes a Scheme at Bath, by
which a whole Company of Sharpers is ruined. CHAPTER LXX. 	The two
Friends eclipse all their Competitors in Gallantry, and practise a
pleasant Project of Revenge upon the Physicians of the Place. CHAPTER
LXXI. 	Peregrine humbles a noted Hector, and meets with a strange
Character at the House of a certain Lady. CHAPTER LXXII. 	He cultivates
an Acquaintance with the Misanthrope, who favours him with a short
Sketch of his own History. CHAPTER LXXIII. 	Peregrine arrives at the
Garrison, where he receives the last Admonitions of Commodore Trunnion,
who next Day resigns his Breath, and is buried according to his own
Directions-Some Gentlemen in the Country make a fruitless Attempt to
accommodate Matters betwixt Mr. Gamaliel Pickle and his eldest Son.
CHAPTER LXXIV. 	The young Gentleman, having settled his domestic
Affairs, arrives in London, and sets up a gay Equipage-He meets with
Emilia, and is introduced to her Uncle. CHAPTER LXXV. 	He prosecutes his
Design upon Emilia with great Art and Perseverance. CHAPTER LXXVI. 	He
prevails upon Emilia to accompany him to a Masquerade, makes a
treacherous Attempt upon her Affection, and meets with a deserved
Repulse. CHAPTER LXXVII. 	He endeavours to Reconcile himself to his
Mistress, and Expostulates with the Uncle, who forbids him the House.
CHAPTER LXXVIII. 	He projects a violent Scheme, in consequence of which
he is involved in a most fatiguing Adventure, which greatly tends
towards the Augmentation of his Chagrin. CHAPTER LXXIX. 	Peregrine sends
a Message to Mrs. Gauntlet, who rejects his Proposal-He repairs to the
Garrison. CHAPTER LXXX. 	He returns to London, and meets with
Cadwallader, who entertains him with many curious Particulars-Crabtree
sounds the Duchess, and undeceives Pickle, who, by an extraordinary
Accident, becomes acquainted with another Lady of Quality. CHAPTER
LXXXI. 	THE MEMOIRS OF A LADY OF QUALITY. CHAPTER LXXXII. 	He persuades
Cadwallader to assume the Character of a Magician, in which he acquires
a great Share of Reputation, by his Responses to three Females of
Distinction, who severally consult the Researches of his Art. CHAPTER
LXXXIII. 	Peregrine and his friend Cadwallader proceed in the Exercise
of the Mystery of Fortune-telling, in the course of which they achieve
various Adventures. CHAPTER LXXXIV. 	The Conjurer and his Associate
execute a Plan of Vengeance against certain Infidels who pretend to
despise their Art; and Peregrine achieves an Adventure with a young
Nobleman. CHAPTER LXXXV. 	Peregrine is celebrated as a Wit and Patron,
and proceeds to entertain himself at the Expense of whom it did concern.
CHAPTER LXXXVI. 	Peregrine receives a letter from Hatchway, in
consequence of which he repairs to the Garrison, and performs the last
Offices to his Aunt-He is visited by Mr. Gauntlet, who invites him to
his Marriage. CHAPTER LXXXVII. 	Peregrine sets out for the Garrison, and
meets with a Nymph of the Road, whom he takes into Keeping, and
metamorphoses into a fine Lady. CHAPTER LXXXVIII. 	He is visited by
Pallet-Contracts an Intimacy with a Newmarket Nobleman, and is by the
Knowing Ones taken in. CHAPTER LXXXIX. 	He is taken into the Protection
of a great Man-Sets up for a Member of Parliament-Is disappointed in his
Expectation, and finds himself egregiously outwitted. CHAPTER XC.
Peregrine commences Minister's Dependant-Meets by Accident with Mrs.
Gauntlet-And descends gradually in the Condition of Life. CHAPTER XCI.
Cadwallader acts the part of a Comforter to his Friend; and in his turn
is consoled by Peregrine, who begins to find himself a most egregious
Dupe. CHAPTER XCII. 	He is indulged with a second Audience by the
Minister, of whose Sincerity he is convinced-His Pride and Ambition
revive, and again are mortified. CHAPTER XCIII. 	Peregrine commits
himself to the Public, and is admitted Member of a College of Authors.
CHAPTER XCIV. 	Further proceedings of the College. CHAPTER XCV. 	The
young Gentleman is introduced to a Virtuoso of the first Order, and
commences Yelper. CHAPTER XCVI. 	Peregrine, finding himself neglected by
Sir Steady Steerwell, expostulates with him in a Letter; in consequence
of which he is forbid his House, loses his Pension, and incurs the
charge of Lunacy. CHAPTER XCVII. 	He writes against the Minister, by
whose Instigation he is arrested, and moves himself by habeas corpus
into the Fleet. CHAPTER XCVIII. 	Pickle seems tolerably well reconciled
to his Cage; and is by the Clergyman entertained with the Memoirs of a
Noted Personage, whom he sees by accident in the Fleet. CHAPTER XCIX.
He is surprised with the Appearance of Hatchway and Pipes, who take up
their Habitation in his Neighbourhood, contrary to his Inclination and
express Desire. CHAPTER C. 	These Associates commit an Assault upon
Crabtree, for which they are banished from the Fleet-Peregrine begins to
feel the effects of Confinement. CHAPTER CI. 	He receives an unexpected
Visit; and the Clouds of Misfortune begin to separate. CHAPTER CII.
Peregrine reconciles himself to the Lieutenant, and renews his
Connection with Society-Divers Plans are projected in his behalf, and he
has occasion to exhibit a remarkable Proof of Self-denial. CHAPTER CIII.
He is engaged in a very extraordinary Correspondence, which is
interrupted by a very unexpected Event. CHAPTER CIV. 	Peregrine holds a
Consultation with his Friends, in consequence of which he bids Adieu to
the Fleet-He arrives at his Father's House, and asserts his Right of
Inheritance. CHAPTER CV. 	He performs the last Offices to his Father,
and returns to London, upon a very interesting Design. CHAPTER CVI. 	He
enjoys an interview with Emilia, and makes himself ample Amends for all
the Mortifications of his Life. THE ADVENTURES OF RODERICK RANDOM By
Tobias Smollett



CONTENTS


THE AUTHOR'S PREFACE

APOLOGUE

THE ADVENTURES OF RODERICK RANDOM

CHAPTER I Of my Birth and Education

CHAPTER II I grow up-am hated by my Relations-sent to School-neglected
by my Grandfather-maltreated by my Master-seasoned to Adversity-I form
Cabals against the Pedant-am debarred Access to my Grandfather-hunted by
his Heir-I demolish the Teeth of his Tutor

CHAPTER III My Mother's Brother arrives-relieves me-a Description of
him-he goes along with me to the House of my Grandfather-is encountered
by his Dogs-defeats them, after a bloody Engagement-is admitted to the
old Gentleman-a Dialogue between them

CHAPTER IV My Grandfather makes his Will-our second Visit-he Dies-his
Will is read in Presence of all his living Descendants-the
Disappointment of my female Cousins-my Uncle's Behaviour

CHAPTER V The Schoolmaster uses me barbarously-I form a Project of
Revenge, in which I am assisted by my Uncle-I leave the Village-am
settled at a University by his Generosity

CHAPTER VI I make great progress in my Studies-am caressed by Everybody-
my female Cousins take notice of me-I reject their Invitation-they are
incensed, and conspire against me-am left destitute by a Misfortune that
befalls my Uncle-Gawky's Treachery-my Revenge

CHAPTER VII I am entertained by Mr. Crab-a description of him-I acquire
the Art of Surgery-consult Crab's Disposition-become necessary to him-an
Accident happens-he advises me to launch out into the world-assists me
with Money-I set out for London

CHAPTER VIII I arrive at Newcastle-meet with my old Schoolfellow Strap-
we determine to walk together to London-set out on our Journey-put up at
a solitary Alehouse-are disturbed by a strange Adventure in the Night

CHAPTER IX We proceed on our Journey-are overtaken by a Highwayman who
fires at Strap-is prevented from shooting me by a Company of Horsemen,
who ride in pursuit of him-Strap is put to Bed at an Inn-Adventures at
that Inn

CHAPTER X The Highwayman is taken-we are detained as Evidence against
him-proceed to the next village-he escapes-we arrive at another inn,
where we go to Bed-in the Night we are awaked by a dreadful Adventure-
next night we lodge at the house of a Schoolmaster-our Treatment there

CHAPTER XI We descry the Waggon-get into it-arrive at an inn-our Fellow
Travellers described-a Mistake is committed by Strap, which produces
strange things

CHAPTER XII Captain Weazel challenges Strap, who declines the Combat-an
Affair between the Captain and me-the Usurer is fain to give Miss Jenny
five Guineas for a Release-we are in Danger of losing a Meal-the
Behaviour of Weazel, Jenny, and Joey, on that Occasion-an Account of
Captain Weazel and his Lady-the Captain's Courage tried-Isaac's mirth at
the Captain's Expense

CHAPTER XIII Strap and I are terrified by an Apparition-Strap's
Conjecture-the Mystery explained by Joey-we arrive in London-our Dress
and Appearance described-we are insulted in the Street-an Adventure in
an Alehouse-we are imposed upon by a waggish Footman-set to rights by a
Tobacconist-take Lodgings-dive for a Dinner-an Accident at our Ordinary

CHAPTER XIV We visit Strap's friend-a description of him-his advice-we
go to Mr. Cringer's house-are denied admittance-an Accident befalls
Strap-his behaviour thereupon-an extraordinary adventure occurs, in the
course of which I lose all my money

CHAPTER XV Strap moralises-presents his purse to me-we inform our
landlord of our misfortune-he unravels the mystery-I present myself to
Cringer-he recommends and turns me over to Mr. Staytape-I become
acquainted with a fellow dependent, who explains the character of
Cringer and Staytape-and informs me of the method to be pursued at the
Navy Office and Surgeons' Hall-Strap is employed

CHAPTER XVI My new acquaintance breaks an appointment-I proceed, by
myself, to the Navy Office-address me to a person there, who assists me
with advice-write to the Board, they grant me a letter to the Surgeons
at the Hall-am informed of the beau's name and character-find him-he
makes me his confidant in an amour-desires me to pawn my linen for his
occasions-recover what I lent him-some curious observations on Strap on
that occasion-his vanity.

CHAPTER XVII I go to Surgeons' Hall, when I meet Mr. Jackson-am
examined-a fierce dispute arises between two of the examiners-Jackson
disguises himself to attract respect-irises himself to attract respect-
is detected-in hazard of being sent to Bridewell-he treats us at a
Tavern-carries us to a Night-house-A troublesome adventure there-we are
committed to the Round-house-carried before a Justice-his behaviour

CHAPTER XVIII I carry my qualification to the Navy Office-the nature of
it-the behaviour of the Secretary-Strap's concern for my absence-a
battle betwixt him a blacksmith-the troublesome consequences of it-his
harangue to me-his friend the schoolmaster recommends me to a French
Apothecary, who entertains me as a journeyman

CHAPTER XIX The character of Mr. Lavement, his wife and daughter-some
anecdotes of the family-the mother and daughter rivals-I am guilty of a
mistake that gives me present satisfaction, but is attended with
troublesome consequences

CHAPTER XX I am assaulted and dangerously wounded-Suspect O'Donnell, and
am confirmed in my opinion-concert a scheme of revenge, and put it into
execution-O'Donnell robs his own servant and disappears-make my
addresses to a lady, and am miraculously delivered from her snare

CHAPTER XXI Squire Gawky comes to lodge with my master-is involved in a
troublesome affair, out of which he is extricated by me-he marries my
master's daughter-they conspire against me-I am found guilty of theft,
discharged-deserted by my friends, I hire a room in St. Gile's-where, by
accident, I find the lady to whom I paid my addresses in a miserable
condition-I relieve her

CHAPTER XXII The History of Miss Williams

CHAPTER XXIII Miss Williams interrupted by a bailiff, who carries her to
the Marshalsea-I accompany her-Prove she is not the person named in the
writ-The bailiff is fain to discharge her-We shift our lodging-Her
story, and my reflections thereupon-Progress of a common woman of the
town-Resolves to quit that way of life

CHAPTER XXIV I am reduced to a great misery-assaulted on Tower Hill by a
press-gang, who put me on board a tender-my usage there-my arrival on
board at a man-of-war, where I am put in irons, and released by the good
offices of Mr. Thompson, who recommends me as assistant to the surgeon--
he relates his own story-characters of the captain, surgeon, and first
mate

CHAPTER XXV The behaviour of Mr. Morgan-his pride, displeasure, and
generosity-the economy of our mess described-Thomson's further
friendship-the nature of my duty explained-the situation of the sick

CHAPTER XXVI A disagreeable accident happens to me in the discharge of
my office-Morgan's nose is offended-a dialogue between him and the
Ship's steward-upon examination, I find more causes of complaint than
one-my hair is cut off-Morgan's cookery-the manner of sleeping on board-
I am waked in the night by a dreadful noise

CHAPTER XXVII I acquire the friendship of the Surgeon, who procures a
warrant for me, and makes me a present of clothes-a battle between a
Midshipman and me-the Surgeon leaves the ship-the Captain comes on board
with another Surgeon-a dialogue between the Captain and Morgan-the sick
are ordered to be brought upon the Quarter-deck and examined-the
consequences of that order-a Madman accuses Morgan, and is set at
liberty by command of the Captain, whom he instantly attacks, and
pummels without mercy

CHAPTER XXVIII The Captain enraged, threatens to put the Madman to death
with his own hand-is diverted from that resolution by the arguments and
persuasion of the first Lieutenant and Surgeon-we set sail for St.
Helen's, join the fleet under the command of Sir C- O-gle, and proceed
for the West Indies-are overtaken by a terrible tempest-my friend Jack
Rattlin has his leg broke by a fall from the mainyard-the behaviour of
Mr. Mackshane-Jack opposes the amputation of his limb, in which he is
seconded by Morgan and me, we undertake the cure and perform it
successfully

CHAPTER XXIX Mackshane's malice-I am taken up and imprisoned for a spy-
Morgan meets with the same fate-Thompson is tampered with to turn
evidence against us-disdains the proposal, and is maltreated for his
integrity-Morgan is released to assist the Surgeon during an engagement
with some French ships-of-war-I remain fettered on the poop, exposed to
the enemy's shot, and grow delirious with fear-am comforted after the
battle by Morgan, who speaks freely of the captain, is overheard by the
sentinel, who informs against him, and again imprisoned-Thompson grows
desperate, and, notwithstanding the remonstrances of Morgan and me, goes
overboard in the night

CHAPTER XXX We lament the fate of our companion-the Captain offers
Morgan his liberty, which he refuses to accept-we are brought before him
and examined-Morgan is sent back into custody, whither also I am
remanded after a curious trial

CHAPTER XXXI I discover a subornation against me, by means of a quarrel
between two of the evidences; in consequence of which I am set at
liberty, and prevail upon Morgan to accept of his freedom on the same
terms-Mackshane's malice-we arrive at Jamaica, from whence in a short
time we beat up to Hispaniola, in conjunction with the West India
squadron-we take in water, sail again, and arrive at Carthagena-
Reflections on our conduct there

CHAPTER XXXII Our Land Forces being disembarked, erect a fascine
battery-our ship is ordered, with four more, to batter the port of Bocca
Chica-Mackshane's cowardice-the Chaplain's frenzy-honest Rattlin loses
one hand-his heroism and reflections on the battle-Crampley's behaviour
to me during the heat of the Fight

CHAPTER XXXIII A breach being made in the walls, our soldiers give the
assault, and take the place without opposition-our sailors at the same
time, become masters of all the other strengths near Bocca Chica, and
take possession of the harbour-the good consequence of this success-we
move nearer the town-find two forts deserted, and the Channel blocked up
with sunk vessels; which however we find means to clear-land our
soldiers at La Quinta-repulse a body of militia-attack the castle of St.
Lazar, and are forced to retreat with great loss-the remains of our army
are re-embarked-an effort of the Admiral to take the town-the economy of
our expedition described

CHAPTER XXXIV An epidemic Fever rages among us-we abandon our Conquests-
I am seized with Distemper-write a Petition to the Captain, which is
rejected-I am in danger of Suffocation through the Malice of Crampley,
and relieved by a Serjeant-my Fever increases-the Chaplain wants to
confess me-I obtain a favourable Crisis-Morgan's Affection for me
proved-the Behaviour of Mackshane and Crampley towards me-Captain Oakum
is removed into another Ship with his beloved Doctor-our new Captain
described-An Adventure of Morgan

CHAPTER XXXV Captain Whiffle sends for me-his situation described-his
surgeon arrives, prescribes for him, and puts him to bed-a bed is put up
for Mr. Simper contiguous to the state room, which, with other parts of
the captains behaviour, gives the ship's company a very unfavourable
idea of their commander-I am detained in the West Indies by the admiral,
and go on board of the Lizard sloop of war in quality of surgeon's mate,
where I make myself known to the surgeon, who treats me very kindly-I go
on shore, sell my ticket, purchase necessaries, and, at my return on
board, am surprised at the sight of Crampley, who is appointed
lieutenant of the sloop-we sail on a cruise-take a prize in which I
arrive at Port Morant under the command of my messmate, with whom I live
in great harmony

CHAPTER XXXVI A strange adventure-in consequence of which I am extremely
happy-Crampley does me in offices with the Captain; but his malice is
defeated by the good-nature and friendship of the surgeon-we return to
Port Royal-our Captain gets the command of a larger ship, and is
succeeded by an old man-Brayl is provided for-we receive orders to sail
for England

CHAPTER XXXVII We depart for Europe-a misunderstanding arises between
the Captain and the Surgeon, through the scandalous aspersions of
Crampley-the Captain dies-Crampley tyrannises over the surgeon, who
falls a Victim for his Cruelty-I am also ill-used-the Ship strikes-the
behaviour of Crampley and the Seamen on that occasion--I get on shore,
challenge the Captain to single combat-am treacherously knocked down,
wounded, and robbed

CHAPTER XXXVIII I get up and crawl into a barn, where I am in danger of
perishing, through the fear of the country people-their inhumanity-I am
succoured by a reputed witch-her story-her advice-she recommends me as a
valet to a single lady, whose character she explains

CHAPTER XXXIX My Reception by that Lady-I become enamoured of Narcissa-
recount the particulars of my last misfortune-acquire the good opinion
of my Mistress-an Account of the young Squire-I am made acquainted with
more particulars of Narcissa's Situation-conceive a mortal hatred
against Sir Timothy-examine my Lady's library and performances-her
extravagant behaviour

CHAPTER XL My mistress is surprised at my learning-communicates her
performances to me-I impart some of mine to her-am mortified at her
faint praise-Narcissa approves of my conduct-I gain an involuntary
conquest over the cookwench and dairymaid-their mutual resentment and
insinuations-the jealousy of their lovers

CHAPTER XLI Narcissa being in danger from the brutality of Sir Timothy,
is rescued by me, who revenge myself on my rival-I declare my passion,
and retreat to the seaside-am surrounded by smugglers, and carried to
Boulogne-find my Uncle Lieutenant Bowling in great distress, and relieve
him-our conversation

CHAPTER XLII He takes his passage in a cutter for Deal-we are accosted
by a Priest, who proves to be a Scotchman-his profession on friendship-
he is affronted by the Lieutenant, who afterwards appeases him by
submission-my uncle embarks-I am introduced by a Priest to a Capuchin,
in whose company I set out for Paris-the character of my fellow
traveller-on adventure on the road-I am shocked at his behaviour

CHAPTER XLIII We lodge at a House near Amiens, where I am robbed by the
Capuchin, who escapes while I am asleep-I go to Noyons in search of him,
but without Success-make my Condition known to several People, but find
no Relief-grow desperate-find a Company of Soldiers-Enlist in the
Regiment of Picardy-we are ordered into Germany-I find the Fatigues of
the March almost intolerable-Quarrel with my Comrade in a dispute about
Politics-he challenges me to the Field-wounds and disarms me

CHAPTER XLIV In order to be revenged, I learn the Science of Defence-we
join Mareschal Duc de Noailles, are engaged with the Allies of
Dettingen, and put to flight-the behaviour of the French soldiers on
that occasion-I industriously seek another combat with the old Gascon,
and vanquish him in my turn-our regiment is put into Winter Quarters at
Rheims, where I find my friend Strap-our Recognition-he supplies me with
Money, and procures my Discharge-we take a trip to Paris; from whence,
by the way of Flanders, we set out for London; where we safely arrive

CHAPTER XLV I inquire for my Uncle, and understand he is gone to sea-
take Lodgings at Charing Cross-go to the Play, where I meet with an
adventure-Dine at an ordinary-the Guests described-become acquainted
with Medlar and Doctor Wagtail

CHAPTER XLVI Wagtail introduces me to set of fine Gentlemen with whom I
spend the Evening at a Tavern-our Conversation-the Characters of my new
Companions-the Doctor is roasted-our Issue of our Debauch

CHAPTER XLVII Strap communicates to me a conquest he had made of a
Chandler's Widow-finds himself miserably mistaken-I go to the Opera-
admire Melinda-am cautioned by Banter-go to the Assembly at Hampstead-
dance with that young lady-receive an insolent message from Bragwell,
whose mettle is soon cooled-am in favour with my Mistress, whom I visit
next day, and am bubbled out of eighteen guineas at cards-Strap triumphs
at my success, but is astonished at my expense-Banter comes to my
lodging, is very sarcastic at my expense, and borrows five guineas from
me, as a proof of his friendship

CHAPTER XLVIII We repair to the coffee-house, where we overhear a
curious dispute between Wagtail and Medlar, which is referred to our
decision-the Doctor gives an account of his experiment-Medlar is roasted
by Banter at the ordinary-the old gentleman's advice to me

CHAPTER XLIX I receive a Challenge-the Consequence of it-the Quarrel
being made up, am put in Arrest by the Care and Affection of Strap-but
immediately released upon explaining my Affair-the Behaviour of Mr.
Oregan and his two Friends-I visit Melinda, whom I divert with an
account of the Duel-propose Marriage-she refers the Matter to her
Mother, of whom I make a solemn Demand of her Daughter-the old Lady's
behaviour-I am discarded--resent their Disdain

CHAPTER L I long to be revenged on Melinda-apply to Banter for his
Assistance-he contrives a scheme for that purpose-which is put in
Execution with great Success-I make an Attempt upon the Heart of Miss
Gripewell, but am disappointed-grow melancholy at my Disappointment, and
have recourse to the Bottle-receive a Billet-doux-am ravished with the
Contents-find myself involved in Intrigue, which I imagined would make
my Fortune-am confounded at my mistake, which banishes all Thoughts of
Matrimony

CHAPTER LI I cultivate an Acquaintance with two Noblemen-am introduced
to earl Strutwell-his kind Promise and Invitation-the Behaviour of his
Porter and Lacquey-he receives me with an Appearance of uncommon
Affection-undertakes to speak in my Behalf to the Minister-informs me of
his Success, and wishes me Joy-introduces a Conversation about Petronius
Arbiter-falls in Love with my Watch, which I press upon him-I make a
present of a Diamond Ring to Lord Straddle-impart my good Fortune to
Strap and Banter, who disabuses me, to my utter Mortification

CHAPTER LII I attempt to recover my Watch and Jewel, but to no Purpose-
resolve to revenge myself on Strutwell by my Importunity-am reduced to
my last Guinea-obliged to inform Strap of my Necessity, who is almost
distracted with the News, but nevertheless obliged to pawn my best Sword
for present Subsistence-that small Supply being exhausted, I am almost
stupified with my Misfortunes-go to the Gaming Table by the Advice of
Banter, and come off with unexpected Success-Strap's Ecstacy-Mrs. Gawky
waits upon me, professes Remorse for her Perfidy, and implores my
Assistance-I do myself a Piece of Justice by her Means, and afterwards
reconcile her to her Father

CHAPTER LIII I purchase new Clothes-reprimand Strutwell and Straddle-
Banter proposes another matrimonial Scheme-I accept of his Terms-set out
to Bath in the Stage-coach with the young Lady and her Mother-the
Behaviour of an Officer and Lawyer-our fellow Travellers described-a
smart dialogue between my Mistress and the Captain

CHAPTER LIV Day breaking, I have the Pleasure of viewing the Person of
Miss Snapper, whom I had not seen before-the Soldier is witty upon me-is
offended-talks much of his Valour-is reprimanded by a grave Gentlewoman-
we are alarmed by the cry of Highwaymen-I get out of the Coach, and
stand in my own defence-they ride off without having attacked us-I
pursue them-one of them is thrown from his Horse and taken-I return to
the Coach-am complimented by Miss Snapper-the Captain's Behaviour on
this Occasion-the Prude reproaches me in a Soliloquy-I upbraid her in
the same Manner-the Behaviour of Miss Snapper, at Breakfast, disobliges
me-the Lawyer is witty upon the Officer, who threatens him

CHAPTER LV I resolve to ingratiate myself with the Mother, and am
favoured by accident-the Precise Lady finds her husband, and quit the
Coach-the Captain is disappointed of his dinner-we arrive at Bath-I
accompany Miss Snapper to the Long-room, where she is attacked by beau
Nash, and, turns the Laugh against him-I make love to her, and receive a
check-Squire her to an Assembly, where I am blessed with a Sight of my
dear Narcissa, which discomposes me so much, that Miss Snapper,
observing my disorder, is at pains to discover the Cause-is piqued at
the Occasion, and, in our way home, pays me a sarcastic Compliment-I am
met by Miss Williams, who is the maid and Confidante of Narcissa-she
acquaints me with her Lady's regard for me while under the disguise of a
Servant, and describes the Transports of Narcissa on seeing me at the
Assembly, in the Character of a Gentleman-I am surprised with an Account
of her Aunt's Marriage, and make an Appointment to meet Miss Williams
the next day

CHAPTER LVI I become acquainted with Narcissa's brother, who invites me
to his House, where I am introduced to that adorable Creature-after
dinner, the Squire retires to take his nap-Freeman, guessing the
Situation of my Thought, withdraws likewise, on pretence of Business-I
declare my passion for Narcissa-am well-received-charmed with her
Conversation-the Squire detains us to Supper-I elude his design by a
Stratagem, and get home sober

CHAPTER LVII Miss Williams informs me of Narcissa's Approbation of my
Flame-I appease the Squire-write to my Mistress-am blessed with an
Answer-beg Leave of her Brother to dance with her at a Ball-obtain his
Consent and hers-enjoy a private Conversation with her-am perplexed with
Reflections-have the Honour of appearing her Partner at a Ball-we are
complimented by a certain Nobleman-he discovers some Symptoms of a
Passion for Narcissa-I am stung with Jealousy-Narcissa, alarmed,
retires-I observe Melinda in the company-the Squire is captivated by her
Beauty

CHAPTER LVIII Tortured with Jealousy, I go Home, and abuse Strap-receive
a Message from Narcissa, in Consequence of which I hasten to her
Apartment, where her endearing Assurances banish all my Doubts and
Apprehensions-in my Retreat discover Somebody in the Dark, whom,
suspecting to be a Spy, I resolve to kill, but, to my great Surprise, am
convinced of his being no other than Strap-Melinda slanders me-I become
acquainted with Lord Quiverwit, who endeavours to sound me with regard
to Narcissa-the Squire is introduced to his Lordship, and grows cold
towards me-I learn from my Confidante, that this Nobleman professes
honourable Love to my Mistress, who continues faithful to me,
notwithstanding the scandalous Reports she had heard to my Prejudice-I
am mortified with an Assurance that her whole Fortune depends upon the
Pleasure of her Brother-Mr. Freeman condoles me on the Decline of my
Character, which I vindicate so much to his satisfaction, that he
undertakes to combat Fame on my behalf

CHAPTER LIX I receive an extraordinary Message at the Door of the Long
Room, which, however, enter, and affront the Squire, who threatens to
take the Law of me-Rebuke Melinda for her Malice-she weeps with
Vexation-Lord Quiverwit is severe upon me-I retort his Sarcasm-am
received with the utmost Tenderness by Narcissa, who desires to hear the
Story of my Life-we vow eternal Constancy to other-I retire-am waked by
a Messenger, who brings a Challenge from Quiverwit, whom I meet, engage,
and vanquish

CHAPTER LX I am visited by Freeman, with whom I appear in Public, and am
caressed-am sent for by Lord Quiverwit, whose Presence I quit flung-
Narcissa is carried off by her Brother-I intend to pursue him, and am
dissuaded by my Friend-engage in Play, and lose all my Money-set out for
London-try my Fortune at the Gaming Table without success-receive a
letter from Narcissa-bilk my Tailor

CHAPTER LXI I am arrested-carried to the Marshalsea-find my old
Acquaintance beau Jackson in that Jail-he informs me of his Adventures-
Strap arrives, and with difficulty is comforted-Jackson introduces me to
a Poet-I admire his Conversation and Capacity-am deeply affected with my
Misfortune-Strap hires himself as a Journeyman Barber

CHAPTER LXII I read Melopoyn's Tragedy, and conceive a vast Opinion of
his Genius-he recounts his Adventures

CHAPTER LXIII The Continuation and Conclusion of Mr. Melopoyn's Story

CHAPTER LXIV I am seized with a deep Melancholy, and become a Sloven-am
relieved by my Uncle-he prevails upon me to engage with his Owners, as a
Surgeon of the Ship which he commands-he makes me a considerable
Present-entertain Strap as his steward-I take leave of my Friends, and
go on Board-the Ship arrives in the Downs

CHAPTER LXV I set out for Sussex-consult Mrs. Sagely-achieve an
Interview with Narcissa-return to the Ship-we get clear of the Channel-I
learn our Destination-we are chased by a large Ship-the company are
dismayed, and encouraged by the Captain's speech-our pursuer happens to
be an English Man of War-we arrive at the Coast of Guinea, purchase four
hundred Negroes-sail for Paraguay, get safe into the River of Plate, and
sell our Cargo to great Advantage

CHAPTER LXVI I am invited to the Villa of a Spanish Don, where we went
with an English Gentleman, and make a very interesting discovery-we
leave Buenos Ayres, and arrive at Jamaica

CHAPTER LXVII I visit my old Friend Thompson-we set sail for Europe-meet
with an odd Adventure-arrive in England-I ride across the Country from
Portsmouth to Sussex-converse with Mrs. Sagely, who informs me of
Narcissa's being in London-in consequence of this Intelligence, I
proceed to Canterbury-meet with my old friend Morgan-arrive in London-
visit Narcissa-introduce my Father to be-he is charmed with her good
sense and beauty-we come to a Determination of demanding her Brother's
Consent to our Marriage

CHAPTER LXVIII My Father makes a present to Narcissa-the Letter is
dispatched to her Brother-I appear among my Acquaintance-Banter's
Behaviour-the Squire refuses his Consent-my Uncle comes to Town-approves
of my Choice-I am married-we meet the Squire and his Lady at the Play-
our Acquaintance is courted

CHAPTER LXIX My father intends to revisit the Place of his Nativity-we
propose to accompany him-my Uncle renews his will in my favour,
determining to go to sea again-we set out for Scotland-arrive at
Edinburgh-purchase our paternal Estate-proceed to it-halt at the Town
where I was educated-take up my bond to Crab-the Behaviour of Potion and
his Wife, and one of our Female Cousins-our Reception at the Estate-
Strap marries Miss Williams, and is settled by my Father to his own
satisfaction-I am more and more happy.

THE ADVENTURES OF SIR LAUNCELOT GREAVES by Tobias Smollett CONTENTS

INTRODUCTION

CHAPTER ONE IN WHICH CERTAIN PERSONAGES OF THIS DELIGHTFUL HISTORY ARE
INTRODUCED TO THE READER'S ACQUAINTANCE.

CHAPTER TWO IN WHICH THE HERO OF THESE ADVENTURES MAKES HIS FIRST
APPEARANCE ON THE STAGE OF ACTION.

CHAPTER THREE WHICH THE READER, ON PERUSAL, MAY WISH WERE CHAPTER THE
LAST.

CHAPTER FOUR IN WHICH IT APPEARS THAT THE KNIGHT, WHEN HEARTILY SET IN
FOR SLEEPING, WAS NOT EASILY DISTURBED.

CHAPTER FIVE IN WHICH THIS RECAPITULATION DRAWS TO A CLOSE.

CHAPTER SIX IN WHICH THE READER WILL PERCEIVE THAT IN SOME CASES MADNESS
IS CATCHING.

CHAPTER SEVEN IN WHICH THE KNIGHT RESUMES HIS IMPORTANCE.

CHAPTER EIGHT WHICH IS WITHIN A HAIR'S-BREADTH OF PROVING HIGHLY
INTERESTING.

CHAPTER NINE WHICH MAY SERVE TO SHOW, THAT TRUE PATRIOTISM IS OF NO
PARTY.

CHAPTER TEN WHICH SHOWETH THAT HE WHO PLAYS AT BOWLS, WILL SOMETIMES
MEET WITH RUBBERS.

CHAPTER ELEVEN DESCRIPTION OF A MODERN MAGISTRATE.

CHAPTER TWELVE WHICH SHOWS THERE ARE MORE WAYS TO KILL A DOG THAN
HANGING.

CHAPTER THIRTEEN IN WHICH OUR KNIGHT IS TANTALISED WITH A TRANSIENT
GLIMPSE OF FELICITY.

CHAPTER FOURTEEN WHICH SHOWS THAT A MAN CANNOT ALWAYS SIP, WHEN THE CUP
IS AT HIS LIP.

CHAPTER FIFTEEN EXHIBITING AN INTERVIEW, WHICH, IT IS TO BE HOPED, WILL
INTEREST THE CURIOSITY OF THE READER.

CHAPTER SIXTEEN WHICH, IT IS TO BE HOPED, THE READER WILL FIND AN
AGREEABLE MEDLEY OF MIRTH AND MADNESS, SENSE AND ABSURDITY.

CHAPTER SEVENTEEN CONTAINING ADVENTURES OF CHIVALRY EQUALLY NEW AND
SURPRISING.

CHAPTER EIGHTEEN IN WHICH THE RAYS OF CHIVALRY SHINE WITH RENOVATED
LUSTRE.

CHAPTER NINETEEN CONTAINING THE ACHIEVEMENTS OF THE KNIGHTS OF THE
GRIFFIN AND CRESCENT.

CHAPTER TWENTY IN WHICH OUR HERO DESCENDS INTO THE MANSION OF THE
DAMNED.

CHAPTER TWENTY-ONE CONTAINING FURTHER ANECDOTES RELATING TO THE CHILDREN
ON WRETCHEDNESS.

CHAPTER TWENTY-TWO IN WHICH CAPTAIN CROWE IS SUBLIMED INTO THE REGIONS
ON ASTROLOGY.

CHAPTER TWENTY-THREE IN WHICH THE CLOUDS THAT COVER THE CATASTROPHE
BEGIN TO DISPERSE.

CHAPTER TWENTY-FOUR THE KNOT THAT PUZZLES HUMAN WISDOM, THE HAND OF
FORTUNE SOMETIMES WILL UNTIE FAMILIAR AS HER GARTER.

CHAPTER THE LAST WHICH, IT IS TO BE HOPED, WILL BE, ON MORE ACCOUNTS
THAN ONE, AGREEABLE TO THE READER.





ILLUSTRATIONS


Titlepage

Frontispiece

Decent House of Entertainment

THE ADVENTURES OF FERDINAND COUNT FATHOM by Tobias Smollett



CONTENTS

INTRODUCTION


TO DOCTOR

CHAPTER ONE SOME SAGE OBSERVATIONS THAT NATURALLY INTRODUCE OUR
IMPORTANT HISTORY.

CHAPTER TWO A SUPERFICIAL VIEW OF OUR HERO'S INFANCY.

CHAPTER THREE HE IS INITIATED IN A MILITARY LIFE, AND HAS THE GOOD
FORTUNE TO ACQUIRE A GENEROUS PATRON.

CHAPTER FOUR HIS MOTHER'S PROWESS AND DEATH; TOGETHER WITH SOME
INSTANCES OF HIS OWN SAGACITY.

CHAPTER FIVE A BRIEF DETAIL OF HIS EDUCATION.

CHAPTER SIX HE MEDITATES SCHEMES OF IMPORTANCE.

CHAPTER SEVEN ENGAGES IN PARTNERSHIP WITH A FEMALE ASSOCIATE, IN ORDER
TO PUT HIS TALENTS IN ACTION.

CHAPTER EIGHT THEIR FIRST ATTEMPT; WITH A DIGRESSION WHICH SOME READERS
MAY THINK IMPERTINENT.

CHAPTER NINE THE CONFEDERATES CHANGE THEIR BATTERY, AND ACHIEVE A
REMARKABLE ADVENTURE.

CHAPTER TEN THEY PROCEED TO LEVY CONTRIBUTIONS WITH GREAT SUCCESS, UNTIL
OUR HERO SETS OUT WITH THE YOUNG COUNT FOR VIENNA, WHERE HE ENTERS INTO
LEAGUE WITH ANOTHER ADVENTURER.

CHAPTER ELEVEN FATHOM MAKES VARIOUS EFFORTS IN THE WORLD OF GALLANTRY.

CHAPTER TWELVE HE EFFECTS A LODGMENT IN THE HOUSE OF A RICH JEWELLER.

CHAPTER THIRTEEN HE IS EXPOSED TO A MOST PERILOUS INCIDENT IN THE COURSE
OF HIS INTRIGUE WITH THE DAUGHTER.

CHAPTER FOURTEEN HE IS REDUCED TO A DREADFUL DILEMMA, IN CONSEQUENCE OF
AN ASSIGNATION WITH THE WIFE.

CHAPTER FIFTEEN BUT AT LENGTH SUCCEEDS IN HIS ATTEMPT UPON BOTH.

CHAPTER SIXTEEN HIS SUCCESS BEGETS A BLIND SECURITY, BY WHICH HE IS ONCE
AGAIN WELL-NIGH ENTRAPPED IN HIS DULCINEA'S APARTMENT.

CHAPTER SEVENTEEN THE STEP-DAME'S SUSPICIONS BEING AWAKENED, SHE LAYS A
SNARE FOR OUR ADVENTURER, FROM WHICH HE IS DELIVERED BY THE
INTERPOSITION OF HIS GOOD GENIUS.

CHAPTER EIGHTEEN OUR HERO DEPARTS FROM VIENNA, AND QUITS THE DOMAIN OF
VENUS FOR THE ROUGH FIELD OF MARS.

CHAPTER NINETEEN HE PUTS HIMSELF UNDER THE GUIDANCE OF HIS ASSOCIATE,
AND STUMBLES UPON THE FRENCH CAMP, WHERE HE FINISHES HIS MILITARY
CAREER.

CHAPTER TWENTY HE PREPARES A STRATAGEM BUT FINDS HIMSELF
COUNTERMINEDa?"PROCEEDS ON HIS JOURNEY, AND IS OVERTAKEN BY A TERRIBLE
TEMPEST.

CHAPTER TWENTY-ONE HE FALLS UPON SCYLLA, SEEKING TO AVOID CHARYBDIS.

CHAPTER TWENTY-TWO HE ARRIVES AT PARIS, AND IS PLEASED WITH HIS
RECEPTION.

CHAPTER TWENTY-THREE ACQUITS HIMSELF WITH ADDRESS IN A NOCTURNAL RIOT.

CHAPTER TWENTY-FOUR HE OVERLOOKS THE ADVANCES OF HIS FRIENDS, AND SMARTS
SEVERELY FOR HIS NEGLECT.

CHAPTER TWENTY-FIVE HE BEARS HIS FATE LIKE A PHILOSOPHER; AND CONTRACTS
ACQUAINTANCE WITH A VERY REMARKABLE PERSONAGE.

CHAPTER TWENTY-SIX THE HISTORY OF THE NOBLE CASTILIAN.

CHAPTER TWENTY-SEVEN THE HISTORY OF THE NOBLE CASTILIAN.

CHAPTER TWENTY-EIGHT SOME ACCOUNT OF HIS FELLOW-TRAVELLERS.

CHAPTER TWENTY-NINE ANOTHER PROVIDENTIAL DELIVERANCE FROM THE EFFECTS OF
THE SMUGGLER'S INGENIOUS CONJECTURE.

CHAPTER THIRTY THE SINGULAR MANNER OF FATHOM'S ATTACK AND TRIUMPH OVER
THE VIRTUE OF THE FAIR ELENOR.

CHAPTER THIRTY-ONE HE BY ACCIDENT ENCOUNTERS HIS OLD FRIEND, WITH WHOM
HE HOLDS A CONFERENCE, AND RENEWS A TREATY.

CHAPTER THIRTY-TWO HE APPEARS IN THE GREAT WORLD WITH UNIVERSAL APPLAUSE
AND ADMIRATION.

CHAPTER THIRTY-THREE HE ATTRACTS THE ENVY AND ILL OFFICES OF THE MINOR
KNIGHTS OF HIS OWN ORDER, OVER WHOM HE OBTAINS A COMPLETE VICTORY.

CHAPTER THIRTY-FOUR HE PERFORMS ANOTHER EXPLOIT, THAT CONVEYS A TRUE
IDEA OF HIS GRATITUDE AND HONOUR.

CHAPTER THIRTY-FIVE HE REPAIRS TO BRISTOL SPRING, WHERE HE REIGNS
PARAMOUNT DURING THE WHOLE SEASON.

CHAPTER THIRTY-SIX HE IS SMITTEN WITH THE CHARMS OF A FEMALE ADVENTURER,
WHOSE ALLUREMENTS SUBJECT HIM TO A NEW VICISSITUDE OF FORTUNE.

CHAPTER THIRTY-SEVEN FRESH CAUSE FOR EXERTING HIS EQUANIMITY AND
FORTITUDE.

CHAPTER THIRTY-EIGHT THE BITER IS BIT.


PART II.

CHAPTER THIRTY-NINE OUR ADVENTURER IS MADE ACQUAINTED WITH A NEW SCENE
OF LIFE.

CHAPTER FORTY HE CONTEMPLATES MAJESTY AND ITS SATELLITES IN ECLIPSE.

CHAPTER FORTY-ONE ONE QUARREL IS COMPROMISED, AND ANOTHER DECIDED BY
UNUSUAL ARMS.

CHAPTER FORTY-TWO AN UNEXPECTED RENCONTRE, AND A HAPPY REVOLUTION IN THE
AFFAIRS OF OUR ADVENTURER.

CHAPTER FORTY-THREE FATHOM JUSTIFIES THE PROVERB, a?oWHAT'S BRED IN THE
BONE WILL NEVER COME OUT OF THE FLESH.a??

CHAPTER FORTY-FOUR ANECDOTES OF POVERTY, AND EXPERIMENTS FOR THE BENEFIT
OF THOSE WHOM IT MAY CONCERN.

CHAPTER FORTY-FIVE RENALDO'S DISTRESS DEEPENS, AND FATHOM'S PLOT
THICKENS.

CHAPTER FORTY-SIX OUR ADVENTURER BECOMES ABSOLUTE IN HIS POWER OVER THE
PASSIONS OF HIS FRIEND, AND EFFECTS ONE HALF OF HIS AIM.

CHAPTER FORTY-SEVEN THE ART OF BORROWING FURTHER EXPLAINED, AND AN
ACCOUNT OF A STRANGE PHENOMENON.

CHAPTER FORTY-EIGHT COUNT FATHOM UNMASKS HIS BATTERY; IS REPULSED; AND
VARIES HIS OPERATIONS WITHOUT EFFECT.

CHAPTER FORTY-NINE MONIMIA'S HONOUR IS PROTECTED BY THE INTERPOSITION OF
HEAVEN.

CHAPTER FIFTY FATHOM SHIFTS THE SCENE, AND APPEARS IN A NEW CHARACTER.
TRIUMPHS OVER A MEDICAL RIVAL.

CHAPTER FIFTY-TWO REPAIRS TO THE METROPOLIS, AND ENROLS HIMSELF AMONG
THE SONS OF PAEAN.

CHAPTER FIFTY-THREE ACQUIRES EMPLOYMENT IN CONSEQUENCE OF A LUCKY
MISCARRIAGE.

CHAPTER FIFTY-FOUR HIS ECLIPSE, AND GRADUAL DECLINATION.

CHAPTER FIFTY-FIVE AFTER DIVERS UNSUCCESSFUL EFFORTS, HE HAS RECOURSE TO
THE MATRIMONIAL NOOSE.

CHAPTER FIFTY-SIX IN WHICH HIS FORTUNE IS EFFECTUALLY STRANGLED.

CHAPTER FIFTY-SEVEN FATHOM BEING SAFELY HOUSED, THE READER IS
ENTERTAINED WITH A RETROSPECT.

CHAPTER FIFTY-EIGHT RENALDO ABRIDGES THE PROCEEDINGS AT LAW, AND
APPROVES HIMSELF THE SON OF HIS FATHER.

CHAPTER FIFTY-NINE HE IS THE MESSENGER OF HAPPINESS TO HIS SISTER, WHO
REMOVES THE FILM WHICH HAD LONG OBSTRUCTED HIS PENETRATION, WITH REGARD
TO COUNT FATHOM.

CHAPTER SIXTY HE RECOMPENSES THE ATTACHMENT OF HIS FRIEND; AND RECEIVES
A LETTER THAT REDUCES HIM TO THE VERGE OF DEATH AND DISTRACTION.

CHAPTER SIXTY-ONE RENALDO MEETS WITH A LIVING MONUMENT OF JUSTICE, AND
ENCOUNTERS A PERSONAGE OF SOME NOTE IN THESE MEMOIRS.

CHAPTER SIXTY-TWO HIS RETURN TO ENGLAND, AND MIDNIGHT PILGRIMAGE TO
MONIMIA'S TOMB.

CHAPTER SIXTY-THREE HE RENEWS THE RITES OF SORROW, AND IS ENTRANCED.

CHAPTER SIXTY-FOUR THE MYSTERY UNFOLDEDa?"ANOTHER RECOGNITION, WHICH, IT
IS TO BE HOPED, THE READER COULD NOT FORESEE.

CHAPTER SIXTY-FIVE A RETROSPECTIVE LINK, NECESSARY FOR THE CONCATENATION
OF THESE MEMOIRS.

CHAPTER SIXTY-SIX THE HISTORY DRAWS NEAR A PERIOD.

CHAPTER SIXTY-SEVEN THE LONGEST AND THE LAST.



<

ILLUSTRATIONS


Titlepage of Part One

Frontispiece of Part One

He Opened the Repository

Titlepage of Part Two

Frontispiece of Part Two

You Are the Count de Melvil

THE HISTORY OF ENGLAND, CONTINUATION OF THE HUME "HISTORY OF ENGLAND" By
Tobias Smollett CONTENTS


List of illustrations

MAPS:

CHAPTER I.

STATE OF THE NATION IMMEDIATELY AFTER THE REVOLUTION.

ACCOUNT OF THE NEW MINISTRY.

THE CONVENTION CONVERTED INTO A PARLIAMENT.

MUTINY IN THE ARMY.

CORONATIONï¿½ABOLITION OF HEARTH-MONEY.

THE COMMONS VOTE MONEY TO INDEMNIFY THE DUTCH.

WILLIAMï¿½S EFFORTS IN FAVOUR OF DISSENTEES.

ACT FOR A TOLERATION.

VIOLENT DISPUTES ABOUT THE BILL FOR A COMPREHENSION.

THE COMMONS ADDRESS THE KING TO SUMMON A CONVOCATION.

SETTLEMENT OF THE REVENUE.

THE KING TAKES UMBRAGE AT THE PROCEEDINGS OF THE WHIG PARTY.

HEATS AND ANIMOSITIES ABOUT THE BILL OF INDEMNITY.

BIRTH OF THE DUKE OF GLOUCESTER.

AFFAIRS OF THE CONTINENT.

WAR DECLARED AGAINST FRANCE.

PROCEEDINGS IN THE CONVENTION.

LETTERS TO THE CONVENTION FROM KING WILLIAM AND KING JAMES.

THE CONVENTION RECOGNIZE THE AUTHORITY OF KING WILLIAM.

CROWN VOTED VACANT, AND AN ACT OF SETTLEMENT PASSED.

THE CROWN TENDERED TO WILLIAM.

THE CONVENTION STATE THEIR GRIEVANCES.

PRELACY ABOLISHED IN SCOTLAND.

DISPUTES IN THE PARLIAMENT.

SCOTCH PARLIAMENT ADJOURNED.

THE CASTLE OF EDINBURGH BESIEGED.

KING WILLIAMï¿½S TROOPS DEFEATED.

KING JAMES CORDIALLY RECEIVED BY THE FRENCH KING.

TYRCONNEL TEMPORIZES WITH WILLIAM.

JAMES ARRIVES IN IRELAND.

ISSUES FIVE PROCLAMATIONS AT DUBLIN.

SIEGE OF LONDONDERRY.

COURAGEOUS DEFENCE.

CRUELTY OF ROSENE.

THE PLACE IS RELIEVED BY KIRKE

THE INNISKILLINEES DEFEAT AND TAKE GENERAL MACARTY.

MEETING OF THE IRISH PARLIAMENT.

THE ACT OF SETTLEMENT REPEALED.

THEY PASS AN ACT OF ATTAINDER.

JAMES COINS BASE MONEY.

PROTESTANT CHURCHES SEIZED BY THE CATHOLICS.

ACTION WITH THE FRENCH FLEET.

DIVERS SENTENCES REVERSED.

INQUIRY INTO THE CAUSE OF MISCARRIAGES IN IRELAND.

BILLS PASSED IN THIS SESSION.

CHAPTER II.

SCHOMBERG LANDS WITH AN ARMY.

THE INNISKILLINERS OBTAIN A VICTORY.

SCHOMBERG CENSURED.

THE FRENCH WORSTED AT WALCOURT.

SUCCESS OF THE CONFEDERATES IN GERMANY.

DEATH OF POPE INNOCENT XI.

KING WILLIAM BECOMES UNPOPULAR.

A GOOD NUMBER OF THE CLERGY REFUSE TO TAKE THE OATHS.

THE KING GRANTS A COMMISSION FOR REFORMING CHURCH DISCIPLINE.

MEETING OF THE CONVOCATION.

THEIR SESSION PROROGUED.

PROCEEDINGS IN PARLIAMENT.

THE WHIGS OBSTRUCT THE INDEMNITY BILL.

INQUIRY INTO THE CAUSE OF THE MISCARRIAGES IN IRELAND RESUMED.

WILLIAM IRRITATED AGAINST THE WHIGS.

PLOT AGAINST THE GOVERNMENT.

DEBATES ABOUT THE CORPORATION BILLS.

THE KING RESOLVES TO FINISH THE IRISH WAR IN PERSON.

LUDLOW ARRIVES IN ENGLAND, BUT IS OBLIGED TO WITHDRAW.

EFFORTS OF THE JACOBITES IN SCOTLAND.

THE COURT INTEREST PREVAILS.

THE TORY INTEREST PREVAILS IN THE NEW PARLIAMENT.

BILL FOR RECOGNISING THEIR MAJESTIES.

KING WILLIAM LANDS IN IRELAND.

JAMES MARCHES TO THE BOYNE.

WILLIAM RESOLVES TO GIVE HIM BATTLE

BATTLE OF THE BOYNE.

DEATH OF SCHOMBERG.

JAMES EMBARKS FOR FRANCE.

WILLIAM ENTERS DUBLIN.

VICTORY GAINED BY THE FRENCH.

TORRINGTON COMMITTED TO THE TOWER.

PROGRESS OF WILLIAM IN IRELAND.

HE INVESTS LIMERICK; IS OBLIGED TO RAISE THE SIEGE.

CORK AND KINSALE REDUCED.

THE FRENCH FORCES QUIT IRELAND.

SAVOY JOINS THE CONFEDERACY.

PRINCE WALDECK DEFEATED.

ARCHDUKE JOSEPH ELECTED KING.

MEETING OF THE PARLIAMENT.

COMMONS COMPLY WITH THE KINGï¿½S DEMANDS.

PETITION OF THE TORIES.

ATTEMPT AGAINST CARMARTHEN.

THE KINGï¿½S VOYAGE TO HOLLAND.

HE ASSISTS AT A CONGRESS.

CHAPTER III.

A CONSPIRACY.

THE KING FILLS UP THE BISHOPRICS.

AFFAIRS-OF SCOTLAND.

CAMPAIGN IN FLANDERS.

ELECTION OF A NEW POPE.

THE EMPERORï¿½S SUCCESS AGAINST THE TURKS.

AFFAIRS OF IRELAND.

THE FRENCH AND IRISH OBTAIN AN HONOURABLE CAPITULATION.

TWELVE THOUSAND IRISH CATHOLICS ARE TRANSPORTED TO FRANCE.

MEETING OF THE ENGLISH PARLIAMENT.

TRANSACTIONS IN PARLIAMENT.

THE ENGLISH AND DUTCH FLEETS BAFFLED BY THE FRENCH.

THE KING DISOBLIGES THE PRESBYTERIANS OF SCOTLAND.

MASSACRE OF GLENCOE.

PREPARATIONS FOR A DESCENT UPON ENGLAND.

DECLARATION OF KING JAMES.

PRECAUTIONS TAKEN BY THE QUEEN FOR THE DEFENCE OF THE NATION.

ADMIRAL RUSSEL PUTS TO SEA.

HE OBTAINS A COMPLETE VICTORY OVER THE FRENCH.

THE FRENCH TAKE NAMUR IN SIGHT OF KING WILLIAM.

THE ALLIES DEFEATED AT STEENKIRK.

EXTRAVAGANT REJOICINGS IN FRANCE.

CONSPIRACY AGAINST THE LIFE OF WILLIAM.

THE CAMPAIGN INACTIVE ON THE RHINE AND IN HUNGARY.

THE DUKE INVADES DAUPHINE.

THE DUKE OF HANOVER CREATED AN ELECTOR OF THE EMPIRE.

CHAPTER IV.

THE EARL OF MARLBOROUGH, BISHOP OF ROCHESTER, &c, FALSELY ACCUSED.

SOURCES OF NATIONAL DISCONTENT.

DISSENSION BETWEEN THE QUEEN AND PRINCESS ANNE.

THE LORDS VINDICATE THEIR PRIVILEGES.

THE COMMONS PRESENT ADDRESSES TO THE KING AND QUEEN.

THE LORDS PRESENT AN ADDRESS OF ADVICE TO THE KING.

THE COMMONS ADDRESS THE KING.

BURNETï¿½S PASTORAL LETTER BURNED.

THE TWO HOUSES ADDRESS THE KING.

ACCOUNT OF THE PLACE AND TRIENNIAL PARLIAMENT BILLS.

TRIAL OF LORD MOHUNï¿½ALTERATIONS IN THE MINISTRY.

THE KING ASSEMBLES THE CONFEDERATE ARMY IN FLANDERS.

THE FRENCH REDUCE HUY.

THE DUKE OF LUXEMBOURG RESOLVES TO ATTACK THE ALLIES.

CHARLEBOY TAKEN BY THE ENEMY.

CAMPAIGN ON THE RHINE.

TRANSACTIONS in HUNGARY and CATALONIA.

NAVAL AFFAIRS.

EXPEDITION TO THE WEST INDIES.

BENBOW BOMBARDS ST. MALOES.

THE FRENCH KING HAS RECOURSE TO THE MEDIATION OF DENMARK.

THE KING RETURNS TO ENGLAND.

BOTH HOUSES INQUIRE INTO THE MISCARRIAGES BY SEA.

VAST SUMS GRANTED FOR THE SERVICES OF THE ENSUING YEAR.

ESTABLISHMENT OF THE BANK OF ENGLAND.

EAST INDIA COMPANYï¿½S CHARTER.

GENERAL NATURALIZATION BILL.

THE ENGLISH ATTEMPT TO MAKE A DESCENT IN CAMARET-BAY.

ADMIRAL RUSSEL RELIEVES BARCELONA.

CAMPAIGN IN FLANDERS.

THE ALLIES REDUCE HUY.

PROGRESS OF THE FRENCH.

DEATH OF ARCHBISHOP TILLOTSON AND OF QUEEN MARY

RECONCILIATION BETWEEN THE KING AND THE PRINCESS OF DENMARK.

CHAPTER V.

ACCOUNT OF THE LANCASHIRE PLOT.

INQUIRY INTO THE ABUSES IN THE ARMY.

EXAMINATION OF COOKE, ACTON, AND OTHERS.

THE DUKE OF LEEDS IMPEACHED.

THE SCOTTISH PARLIAMENT.

THEY INQUIRE INTO THE MASSACRE OF GLENCOE.

THEY PASS AN ACT FOR ERECTING A TRADING COMPANY.

PROCEEDINGS IN THE IRISH PARLIAMENT.

DISPOSITION OF THE ARMIES.

WILLIAM UNDERTAKES THE SIEGE OF NAMUR.

FAMOUS RETREAT OF PRINCE VAUDEMONT.

CAMPAIGN ON THE RHINE.

THE DUKE OF SAVOY TAKES CASAL.

TRANSACTIONS IN CATALONIA.

THE ENGLISH FLEET BOMBARDS ST. MALOES, &c.

EXPEDITION TO THE WEST INDIES.

A NEW PARLIAMENT.

BILL FOR REGULATING TRIALS IN CASES OF HIGH-TREASON.

RESOLUTIONS WITH RESPECT TO A NEW COINAGE.

INTRIGUES OF THE JACOBITES.

CONSPIRACY AGAINST THE LIFE OF WILLIAM.

DESIGN OF AN INVASION DEFEATED.

THE TWO HOUSES FORM AN ASSOCIATION FOR THE DEFENCE OF HIS MAJESTY.

ESTABLISHMENT OF A LAND-BANK.

THE ALLIES BURN THE MAGAZINE AT GIVET.

LOUIS MAKES ADVANCES TOWARDS A PEACE WITH HOLLAND.

NAVAL TRANSACTIONS.

PROCEEDINGS IN THE PARLIAMENTS OF SCOTLAND AND IRELAND.

ZEAL OF THE ENGLISH COMMONS IN THEIR AFFECTION TO THE KING.

RESOLUTIONS TOUCHING THE COIN, &c.

SIR JOHN FENWICK IS APPREHENDED, CONDEMNED, AND BEHEADED.

EARL OF MONMOUTH SENT TO THE TOWER.

INQUIRY INTO MISCARRIAGES BY SEA.

NEGOTIATIONS AT RYSWICK.

THE FRENCH TAKE BARCELONA.

EXPEDITION OF ADMIRAL NEVIL TO THE WEST INDIES.

THE ELECTOR OF SAXONY IS CHOSEN KING OF POLAND.

THE CZAR OF MUSCOVY TrAVELS IN DISGUISE.

CONGRESS AT RYSWICK.

THE AMBASSADORS SIGN THE TREATY.

A GENERAL PACIFICATION.

CHAPTER VI.

CHARACTERS OF THE MINISTERS.

THE NUMBER OF STANDING FORCES REDUCED TO TEN THOUSAND.

CIVIL LIST ESTABLISHED, &c.

COGNIZANCE TAKEN OF FRAUDULENT ENDORSEMENTS OF EXCHEQUER BILLS.

A NEW EAST INDIA COMPANY CONSTITUTED BY ACT OF PARLIAMENT.

SOCIETY FOR THE REFOrMATION OF MANNERS.

THE EARL OF PORTLAND RESIGNS.

THE KING DISOWNS THE SCOTTISH TRADING COMPANY.

HE EMBARKS FOR HOLLAND.

FIRST TREATY OF PARTITION.

INTRIGUES OF FRANCE AT THE COURT OF MADRID.

THE COMMONS ADDRESS THE KING.

THE SCOTTISH COMPANY MAKE A SETTLEMENT ON THE ISTHMUS OF DARIEN.

REMONSTRANCES OF THE SPANISH COURT.

THE COMMONS PERSIST IN THEIR RESOLUTIONS.

INQUIRY INTO THE EXPEDITION Of CAPTAIN KIDD.

INQUIRY INTO THE IRISH FORFEITURES.

THE COMMONS PASS A BILL OF RESUMPTION.

A SEVERE BILL PASSED AGAINST THE PAPISTS.

LORD SOMERS DISMISSED.

SECOND TREATY OF PARTITION.

A FLEET SENT INTO THE BALTIC.

SECOND TREATY OF PARTITION.

THE FRENCH INTEREST PREVAILS AT THE COURT OF SPAIN.

DEATH OF THE KING OF SPAIN.

PHILIP ACKNOWLEDGED KING OF SPAIN.

A NEW MINISTRY, AND A NEW PARLIAMENT.

AN INTERCEPTED LETTER.

SUCCESSION OF THE CROWN SETTLED.

INEFFECTUAL NEGOTIATION with FRANCE.

SEVERE ADDRESSES FROM BOTH HOUSES.

WILLIAM IS OBLIGED TO ACKNOWLEDGE THE KING OF SPAIN.

EARL OF ORFORD, &c, IMPEACHED.

DISPUTES BETWEEN THE TWO HOUSES.

THE IMPEACHED LORDS ACQUITTED.

PETITION OF KENT.

PROGRESS OF PRINCE EUGENE.

SITUATION OF AFFAIRS IN EUROPE.

TREATY OF ALLIANCE BETWEEN THE EMPEROR AND THE MARITIME POWERS.

DEATH OF KING JAMES.

LOUIS OWNS THE PRETENDED PRINCE OF WALES AS KING OF ENGLAND.

THE KINGï¿½S LAST SPEECH TO BOTH HOUSES.

THE BILL OF ABJURATION PASSED.

AFFAIRS OF IRELAND.

THE KING RECOMMENDS AN UNION.

HE FALLS FROM HIS HORSE.

HIS DEATH AND CHARACTER.


NOTES:


MAPS:


QUEEN ANNE

CHAPTER VII.

ANNE SUCCEEDS TO THE THRONE.

THE ENGAGEMENTS OF HER PREDECESSOR WITH HIS ALLIES FULFILLED.

A FRENCH MEMORIAL PRESENTED TO THE STATES-GENERAL.

QUEENï¿½S INCLINATION TO THE TORIES.

WAR DECLARED AGAINST FRANCE.

THE PARLIAMENT PROROGUED.

WARM OPPOSITION TO THE MINISTRY IN THE SCOTTISH PARLIAMENT.

THEY RECOGNISE HER MAJESTYï¿½S AUTHORITY.

THE QUEEN APPOINTS COMMISSIONERS TO TREAT OF AN UNION.

STATE OF AFFAIRS ON THE CONTINENT.

KEISEESWAERT AND LANDAU TAKEN.

PROGRESS OF THE EARL OF MARLBOROUGH.

HE NARROWLY ESCAPES BEING TAKEN BY A FRENCH PARTISAN.

THE IMPERIALISTS ARE WORSTED AT FEIDLINGUEN.

BATTLE OF LUZZARA, IN ITALY.

THE KING OF SWEDEN DEFEATS AUGUSTUS AT LISSOU.

FRUITLESS EXPEDITION TO CADIZ.

SPANISH GALLEONS TAKEN and DESTROYED.

BENBOWï¿½S ENGAGEMENT WITH DU CASSE.

A NEW PARLIAMENT.

DISPUTES BETWEEN THE TWO HOUSES.

THE LORDS INQUIRE INTO THE CONDUCT OF SIR GEORGE ROOKE.

COMMERCE PROHIBITED BETWEEN HOLLAND, FRANCE, AND SPAIN.

BILL FOR PREVENTING OCCASIONAL CONFORMITY.

INQUIRY INTO THE PUBLIC ACCOUNTS.

DISPUTES BETWEEN THE TWO HOUSES OF CONVOCATION.

ACCOUNT OF PARTIES IN SCOTLAND.

DANGEROUS HEATS IN THE PARLIAMENT.

THE COMMISSIONER IS ABANDONED BY THE CAVALIERS.

HE IS IN DANGER OF HIS LIFE.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE IRISH PARLIAMENT.

A SEVERE ACT PASSED AGAINST PAPISTS.

THE ELECTOR TAKES POSSESSION OF RATISBON.

THE ALLIES REDUCE BONNE.

BATTLE OF ECKEREN.

PRINCE OF HESSE DEFEATED BY THE FRENCH.

TREATY BETWEEN THE EMPEROR AND THE DUKE OF SAVOY.

SIR CLOUDESLEY SHOVEL SAILS WITH A FLEET.

ADMIRAL GRAYDONï¿½S BOOTLESS EXPEDITION.

CHARLES KING OF SPAIN ARRIVES IN ENGLAND.

CHAPTER VIII.

BILL AGAINST OCCASIONAL CONFORMITY.

CONSPIRACY OF SIMON FRASER, LORD LOVAT.

A REMONSTRANCE PRESENTED TO THE QUEEN.

DISPUTES BETWEEN THE TWO HOUSES.

THE QUEENï¿½S BOUNTY to the POOR CLERGY.

INQUIRY INTO NAVAL AFFAIRS.

TRIAL OF LINDSAY.

THE SCOTTISH PARLIAMENT.

VIOLENT OPPOSITION TO THE MINISTRY.

THEY PASS THE ACT OF SECURITY.

SITUATION OF THE EMPERORï¿½S AFFAIRS.

MARLBOROUGH MARCHES WITH THE ALLIED ARMY INTO GERMANY.

FRUITLESS NEGOTIATION WITH THE ELECTOR.

THE CONFEDERATES OBTAIN A COMPLETE VICTORY AT HOCHSTADT.

SIEGE OF LANDAU.

MARLBOROUGH RETURNS TO ENGLAND.

STATE OF THE WAR IN EUROPE.

CAMPAIGN IN PORTUGAL.

SIR GEORGE KOOKE TAKES GIBRALTAR.

SESSION OF PARLIAMENT IN ENGLAND.

AN ACT OF ALIENATION PASSED.

DISAGREEMENT ON THE SUBJECT OF THE AYLESBURY CONSTABLES.

THE PARLIAMENT DISSOLVED.

PROCEEDINGS IN THE SCOTTISH PARLIAMENT.

ACT PASSED FOR A TREATY OF UNION.

DIFFERENCE BETWEEN THE PARLIAMENT AND CONVOCATION IN IRELAND.

CAMPAIGN ON THE MOSELLE.

THE DUKE OF MARLBOROUGH FORCES THE FRENCH LINES IN BRABANT.

HE VISITS THE COURT OF VIENNA.

STATE OF THE WAR ON THE UPPER RHINE, IN HUNGARY, &c.

THE FRENCH FLEET DESTROYED, &c.

BARCELONA REDUCED BY SIR C. SHOVEL AND LORD PETERBOROUGH.

THE EARLï¿½S PROGRESS IN SPAIN.

NEW PARLIAMENT IN ENGLAND.

BILL FOR A REGENCY.

THE PARLIAMENT PROROGUED.

CONFERENCES OPENED FOR A TREATY OF UNION WITH SCOTLAND.

SUBSTANCE OF THE TREATY.

CHAPTER IX.

THE FRENCH DEFEATED AT THE BATTLE OF RAMILLIES.

THE SIEGE OF BARCELONA RAISED.

PRINCE EUGENE OBTAINS A COMPLETE VICTORY OVER THE FRENCH.

SIR C. SHOVEL SAILS WITH A REINFORCEMENT TO CHARLES.

THE KING OF SWEDEN MARCHES INTO SAXONY.

THE FRENCH KING DEMANDS CONFERENCES FOR A PEACE.

MEETING OF THE SCOTTISH PARLIAMENT.

VIOLENT OPPOSITION TO THE UNION.

PROCEEDINGS in the ENGLISH PARLIAMENT.

THE COMMONS APPROVE OF THE ARTICLES OF THE UNION.

PARLIAMENT REVIVED BY PROCLAMATION.

THE QUEEN GIVES AUDIENCE TO A MUSCOVITE AMBASSADOR.

PROCEEDINGS IN CONVOCATION.

FRANCE THREATENED WITH TOTAL RUIN.

THE ALLIES ARE DEFEATED AT ALMANZA.

UNSUCCESSFUL ATTEMPT UPON TOULON.

SIR CLOUDESLEY SHOVEL WRECKED.

INTERVIEW BETWEEN THE KING OF SWEDEN AND THE DUKE OF MARLBOROUGH.

INACTIVE CAMPAIGN in the NETHERLANDS.

A PARTY FORMED AGAINST MARLBOROUGH.

MEETING OP THE FIRST BRITISH PARLIAMENT.

INQUIRY INTO THE STATE OF THE WAR IN SPAIN.

THE PRETENDER EMBARKS AT DUNKIRK FOR SCOTLAND.

STATE OF THE NATION AT THAT PERIOD.

PARLIAMENT DISSOLVED.

THE FRENCH SURPRISE GHENT AND BRUGES.

THE ALLIES INVEST LISLE.

LISLE SURRENDERED, GHENT TAKEN, AND BRUGES ABANDONED.

CONQUEST OF MINORCA.

RUPTURE BETWEEN THE POPE AND THE EMPEROR.

DEATH OF PRINCE GEORGE OF DENMARK.

THE NEW PARLIAMENT ASSEMBLED.

NATURALIZATION BILL.

ACT OF GRACE.

DISPUTES ABOUT THE MUSCOVITE AMBASSADOR COMPROMISED.

CHAPTER X.

NEGOTIATION FOR PEACE INEFFECTUAL.

THE ALLIED ARMY TAKE TOURNAY.

THE FRENCH ARE DEFEATED.

MONS SURRENDERED.

CAMPAIGN IN SPAIN.

FRENCH KINGï¿½S PROPOSALS OF TREATING REJECTED BY THE STATES-GENERAL.

ACCOUNT OF DE SACHEVEREL.

HIS TRIAL.

DEBATES UPON IT IN THE LORDS.

CONFERENCES AT GERTRUYDENBURGH.

PRIDE AND OBSTINACY OF THE DUTCH.

DOUAY, BETHUNE, AIRE, &c. TAKEN BY THE CONFEDERATES.

KING CHARLES, OBTAINING A VICTORY AT SARAGOSSA, ENTERS MADRID.

BATTLE OF VILLAVICIOSA.

THE WHIG MINISTRY DISGRACED.

DUKE OF MARLBOROUGH INSULTED.

INQUIRY INTO THE CONDUCT OF THE WAR IN SPAIN.

HARLEY STABBED AT THE COUNCIL BOARD.

DEATH OF THE EMPEROR JOSEPH.

PROCEEDINGS IN THE CONVOCATION.

THE DUKE OF MARLBOROUGH CONTINUES TO COMMAND THE ALLIED ARMY.

BOUCHAIN REDUCED.

DUKE OF ARGYLE COMMANDS THE BRITISH TROOPS IN SPAIN.

EXPEDITION TO CANADA.

NEGOTIATION BETWEEN THE COURTS OF FRANCE AND ENGLAND.

MENAGER ARRIVES PRIVATELY in ENGLAND.

THE FRENCH KINGï¿½S PROPOSALS DISAGREEABLE TO THE ALLIES.

DUKE OF MARLBOROUGH DISMISSED FROM ALL HIS EMPLOYMENTS.

PRINCE EUGENE ARRIVES IN ENGLAND.

WALPOLE EXPELLED.

RESOLUTIONS AGAINST THE BARRIER-TREATY AND THE DUTCH.

ACTS UNFAVOURABLE TO THE PRESBYTERIAN DISCIPLINE IN SCOTLAND.

CHAPTER XI.

THE QUEENï¿½S MEASURES OBSTRUCTED.

DEATH OF THE DAUPHIN AND HIS SON.

THE QUEEN DEMANDS PHILIPï¿½S RENUNCIATION OF THE CROWN.

THE DUKE OF ORMOND TAKES THE COMMAND OF THE BRITISH FORCES.

PHILIP PROMISES TO RENOUNCE THE CROWN OF FRANCE.

THE QUEEN COMMUNICATES THE PLAN OF THE PEACE TO PARLIAMENT.

IRRUPTION INTO FRANCE BY GENERAL GROVESTEIN.

FOREIGN TROOPS IN BRITISH PAY REFUSE TO MARCH WITH ORMOND.

THE ALLIES DEFEATED AT DENAIN.

PROGRESS OF THE CONFERENCES AT UTRECHT.

THE DUKE OF HAMILTON AND LORD MOHUN ARE KILLED IN A DUEL.

THE STATES-GENERAL SIGN THE BARRIER-TREATY.

PEACE WITH FRANCE.

THE TREATY WITH FRANCE.

THE SCOTTISH LORDS MOVE FOR A BILL TO DISSOLVE THE UNION.

VIOLENCE OF PARTIES IN ENGLAND.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE IRISH PARLIAMENT.

NEW PARLIAMENT IN ENGLAND.

TREATY OF RASTADT BETWEEN THE EMPEROR AND FRANCE.

THE LORDS TAKE COGNIZANCE OF A LIBEL AGAINST THE SCOTS.

MR. STEELE EXPELLED THE HOUSE.

WHIGSï¿½ PRECAUTION FOR SECURING THE PROTESTANT SUCCESSION.

A WRIT DEMANDED FOR THE ELECTORAL PRINCE OF HANOVER.

THE PARLIAMENT PROROGUED.

PRECAUTIONS TAKEN FOR SECURING THE PEACE OF THE KINGDOM.

DEATH AND CHARACTER OF ANNE.


NOTES:


MAPS:


GEORGE I.

CHAPTER I.

STATE OF PARTIES.

KING GEORGE PROCLAIMED.

THE CIVIL LIST GRANTED TO THE KING.

THE ELECTORAL PRINCE CREATED PRINCE OF WALES.

THE KING ARRIVES IN ENGLAND.

THE TORIES TOTALLY EXCLUDED FROM THE ROYAL FAVOUR.

PRETENDERï¿½S MANIFESTO.

NEW PARLIAMENT.

THE KINGï¿½S FIRST SPEECH.

COMMITTEE OF SECRECY.

SIR JOHN NORRIS SENT WITH A FLEET TO THE BALTIC.

DISCONTENT OF THE NATION.

REPORT OF THE SECRET COMMITTEE.

EARL OF OXFORD SENT TO THE TOWER.

THE KING DECLARES TO BOTH HOUSES THAT A REBELLION IS BEGUN.

DUKE OF ORMOND AND LORD BOLINGBROKE ATTAINTED.

INTRIGUES OF THE JACOBITES.

DEATH OF LOUIS XIV.

THE EARL OF MAR SETS UP THE PRETENDERï¿½S STANDARD.

MACKINTOSH JOINS THE ENGLISH INSURGENTS.

BATTLE AT DUMBLANE.

THE PRETENDER ARRIVES IN SCOTLAND.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE IRISH PARLIAMENT.

THE REBEL LORDS ARE IMPEACHED.

EARL OF DEEWENTWATER AND LORD KENMUIR ARE BEHEADED.

TRIALS OF REBELS.

ACT FOR SEPTENNIAL PARLIAMENTS.

DUKE OF ARGYLE DISGRACED.

THE TRIPLE ALLIANCE.

COUNT GYLLENBURGH ARRESTED.

ACCOUNT OF THE OXFORD RIOT.

DIVISION IN THE MINISTRY.

THE COMMONS PASS THE SOUTH-SEA ACT, &c.

TRIAL OF THE EARL OF OXFORD.

PROCEEDINGS IN THE CONVOCATION WITH REGARD TO DR. HOADLEY.

CHAPTER II.

DIFFERENCE BETWEEN THE KING AND THE CZAR OF MUSCOVY.

THE KING OF SWEDEN IS KILLED.

NEGOTIATION FOR A QUADRUPLE ALLIANCE.

PROCEEDINGS IN PARLIAMENT.

NATURE OF THE QUADRUPLE ALLIANCE.

ADMIRAL BYNG SAILS.

HE DESTROYS THE SPANISH FLEET.

REMONSTRANCES OF THE SPANISH MINISTRY.

ACT FOR STRENGTHENING THE PROTESTANT INTEREST.

WAR DECLARED AGAINST SPAIN.

CONSPIRACY AGAINST THE REGENT OF FRANCE.

INTENDED INVASION BY ORMOND.

THREE HUNDRED SPANIARDS LAND AND ARE TAKEN IN SCOTLAND.

ACCOUNT OF THE PEERAGE BILL.

COUNT MERCI ASSUMES THE COMMAND OF THE IMPERIAL ARMY

ACTIVITY OF ADMIRAL BYNG.

THE SPANISH TROOPS EVACUATE SICILY.

PHILIP OBLIGED TO ACCEDE TO THE QUADRUPLE ALLIANCE.

BILL FOR SECURING THE DEPENDENCY OF IRELAND UPON THE CROWN.

SOUTH-SEA ACT

CHARTERS GRANTED TO THE ROYAL AND LONDON ASSURANCE OFFICES.

TREATY OF ALLIANCE WITH SWEDEN.

THE PRINCE OF HESSE ELECTED KING OF SWEDEN.

EFFECTS OF THE SOUTH-SEA SCHEME.

A SECRET COMMITTEE APPOINTED BY THE HOUSE OF COMMONS.

SEVERE RESOLUTIONS AGAINST THE SOUTH-SEA COMPANY.

CHAPTER III.

BILL AGAINST ATHEISM.

ALLIANCE BETWEEN GREAT BRITAIN, FRANCE, AND SPAIN.

PLAGUE AT MARSEILLES.

DEBATES IN THE HOUSE OF LORDS ABOUT MR. LAW.

SENTIMENTS OF SOME LORDS TOUCHING THE WAR.

PETITION OF THE QUAKERS..

NEW PARLIAMENT.

DECLARATION OF THE PRETENDER.

REPORT OF THE SECRET COMMITTEE.

BILL OF PAINS AND PENALTIES AGAINST THE BISHOP OF ROCHESTER.

PROCEEDINGS AGAINST THOSE CONCERNED IN THE LOTTERY AT HAMBURGH.

AFFAIRS OF THE CONTINENT.

CLAMOUR IN IRELAND ON ACCOUNT OF WOODï¿½S COINAGE.

DEATH OF THE DUKE OF ORLEANS.

AN ACT FOR LESSENING THE PUBLIC DEBTS.

PHILIP, KING OF SPAIN, ABDICATES THE THRONE.

ABUSES IN CHANCERY.

TRIAL OF THE EARL OF MACCLESFIELD.

DEBATES ABOUT THE DEBTS OF THE CIVIL LIST.

BILL IN FAVOUR OF THE LATE LORD BOLINGBROKE.

TREATY OF ALLIANCE.

TREATY OF HANOVER.

A SQUADRON SENT TO THE BALTIC.

ADMIRAL HOSIERï¿½S EXPEDITION.

DISGRACE OF THE DUKE DE RIPPERDA.

SUBSTANCE OF THE KINGï¿½S SPEECH.

DEBATE IN THE HOUSE OF LORDS.

CONVENTIONS WITH SWEDEN AND HESSE-CASSEL.

VOTE OF CREDIT.

SIEGE OF GIBRALTAR

PRELIMINARIES OF PEACE.

DEATH AND CHARACTER OF GEORGE I.


NOTES:


GEORGE II.

CHAPTER I.

GEORGE II. ASCENDS THE THRONE.

CHARACTERS OF THE PRINCIPAL PERSONS CONCERNED IN THE MINISTRY.

DEBATES IN PARLIAMENT CONCERNING THE CIVIL LIST.

NEW PARLIAMENT.

VIOLENT DISPUTE CONCERNING THE NATIONAL DEBT.

A DOUBLE MARRIAGE BETWEEN THE HOUSES OF SPAIN AND PORTUGAL.

LIBERALITY OF THE COMMONS.

DEBATES ON THE SUBSIDIES OF HESSE-CASSEL AND WOLFENBUTTLE.

COMMITTEE FOR INSPECTING THE GAOLS.

ADDRESS TOUCHING THE SPANISH DEPREDATIONS.

PROCEEDINGS IN THE HOUSE OF LORDS.

WISE CONDUCT OF THE IRISH PARLIAMENT.

ABDICATION OF THE KING OF SARDINIA.

SUBSTANCE OF THE KINGï¿½S SPEECH.

OBJECTIONS TO THE TREATY OF SEVILLE.

OPPOSITION TO A STANDING ARMY.

BILL PROHIBITING LOANS.

CHARTER OF THE EAST-INDIA COMPANY.

THE EMPEROR RESENTS THE TREATY OF SEVILLE.

ARRIVAL OF SEVEN INDIAN CHIEFS.

BILL AGAINST PENSIONERS SITTING AS MEMBERS IN THE HOUSE OF COMMONS.

TREATY OF VIENNA.

DEATH OF THE DUKE OF PARMA.

DON CARLOS TAKES POSSESSION OF HIS TERRITORIES.

FRANCE DISTRACTED BY RELIGIOUS DISPUTES.

THE MINISTRY VIOLENTLY OPPOSED.

DEBATE ON A STANDING ARMY.

THE CHARITABLE CORPORATION.

REVIVAL OF THE SALT-TAX.

MR. PULTENEYï¿½S NAME STRUCK OUT OF THE LIST OF PRIVY-COUNSELLORS.

THE KING SETS OUT FOR HANOVER.

CHAPTER II.

REMARKABLE INSTANCE OF SUICIDE.

AFFAIRS OF THE CONTINENT.

MEETING OF THE PARLIAMENT.

ADDRESS TO THE KING.

THE EXCISE SCHEME PROPOSED.

BILL FOR A DOWER TO THE PRINCESS ROYAL.

DOUBLE ELECTION OF A KING OF POLAND.

CONFEDERACY AGAINST THE EMPEROR.

ARRIVAL OF THE PRINCE OF ORANGE.

ALTERCATION IN THE COMMONS.

MOTION FOR THE REPEAL OF THE SEPTENNIAL ACT.

CONCLUSION OF A REMARKABLE SPEECH BY SIR W. WYNDHAM.

PARLIAMENT DISSOLVED.

DANTZIC BESIEGED BY THE RUSSIANS.

PHILIPSBURGH TAKEN BY THE FRENCH.

BATTLE OF PARMA.

THE IMPERIALISTS ARE AGAIN WORSTED.

NEW PARLIAMENT IN GREAT BRITAIN.

DEBATE ON A SUBSIDY TO DENMARK.

PETITION OF SOME SCOTTISH NOBLEMEN.

MISUNDERSTANDING BETWEEN THE COURTS OF SPAIN AND PORTUGAL.

PRELIMINARIES SIGNED BY THE EMPEROR AND THE KING OF FRANCE.

PROCEEDINGS IN PARLIAMENT.

BILL FOR THE RELIEF OF QUAKERS IN THE ARTICLE OF TITHES.

MORTMAIN ACT.

REMARKABLE RIOT AT EDINBURGH.

RUPTURE BETWEEN THE CZARINA AND THE OTTOMAN PORTE.

THE SESSION OF PARLIAMENT OPENED

MOTION IN BOTH HOUSES FOR A SETTLEMENT ON THE PRINCE OF WALES.

SCHEME FOR REDUCING THE INTEREST OF THE NATIONAL DEBT.

BILL AGAINST THE CITY OF EDINBURGH.

PLAY-HOUSE BILL.

CHAPTER III.

THE RUSSIANS TAKE OCZAKOW.

DEATH OF CAROLINE, QUEEN CONSORT.

DISPUTE IN PARLIAMENT.

SPANISH DEPREDATIONS.

MOTIVES FOR AVOIDING A WAR.

BILL FOR SECURING THE TRADE IN AMERICA.

BIRTH OF PRINCE GEORGE.

PROGRESS of the WAR AGAINST the TURKS.

DISPUTE BETWEEN HANOVER AND DENMARK.

PETITIONS AGAINST THE CONVENTION.

DEBATE ON THE CONTENTION.

SECESSION OF THE CHIEF MEMBERS IN THE OPPOSITION.

THE HOUSE OF LORDS DEBATE UPON AN ADDRESS TO HIS MAJESTY.

PARLIAMENT PROROGUED.

THE KING OF SPAIN PUBLISHES A MANIFESTO.

THE EMPEROR AND CZARINA CONCLUDE A PEACE WITH THE TURKS.

PREPARATIONS FOR WAR IN ENGLAND.

PENSION-BILL REVIVED AND LOST.

PORTO BELLO TAKEN by ADMIRAL VERNON.

MARRIAGE OF THE PRINCESS MARY TO THE PRINCE OF HESSE.

STRONG ARMAMENT SENT TO THE WEST INDIES.

DEATH OF THE EMPEROR AND CZARINA.

PROCEEDINGS IN PARLIAMENT.

DISCONTENTS AGAINST THE MINISTRY.

MOTION FOR REMOVING SIR R. WALPOLE FROM HIS MAJESTYï¿½S COUNCILS.

DEBATE ON THE MUTINY BILL.

PROCEEDINGS IN THE HOUSE OF LORDS.

CHAPTER IV.

ARMY UNDER LORD CATHCART AND SIR CHALONER OGLE.

NATURE OF THE CLIMATE ON THE SPANISH MAIN.

ADMIRAL VERNON SAILS TO CARTHAGENA.

EXPEDITION TO CUBA.

RUPTURE BETWEEN THE QUEEN OF HUNGARY AND THE KING OF PRUSSIA.

A TREATY OF NEUTRALITY CONCLUDED WITH FRANCE FOR HANOVER.

A BODY OF FRENCH FORCES JOIN THE ELECTOR OF BAVARIA.

WAR BETWEEN RUSSIA AND SWEDEN.

REVOLUTION IN RUSSIA.

INACTIVITY OF THE NAVAL POWER OF GREAT BRITAIN.

REMARKABLE MOTION IN THE HOUSE OF COMMONS BY LORD SOMERSET.

THE COUNTRY PARTY OBTAIN A MAJORITY IN THE COMMONS.

SIR ROBERT WALPOLE CREATED EARL OF ORFORD.

CHANGE IN THE MINISTRY.

INQUIRY INTO THE ADMINISTRATION OF SIR ROBERT WALPOLE.

THE ELECTOR OF BAVARIA CHOSEN EMPEROR.

THE KING OF PRUSSIA GAINS THE BATTLE AT CZASLAW.

EXTRAORDINARY RETREAT OF M. DE BELLEISLE.

THE KING OF GREAT BRITAIN FORMS AN ARMY IN FLANDERS.

PROGRESS OF THE WAR BETWEEN RUSSIA AND SWEDEN.

THE KING OF SARDINIA DECLARES FOR THE HOUSE OF AUSTRIA.

OPERATIONS IN THE WEST INDIES.

EXTRAORDINARY MOTION IN THE HOUSE OF LORDS.

BILL FOR QUIETING CORPORATIONS.

CONVENTION BETWEEN THE EMPEROR AND THE QUEEN OF HUNGARY.

DIFFERENCE BETWEEN PRUSSIA AND THE ELECTOR OF HANOVER.

THE ENGLISH OBTAIN A VICTORY OVER THE FRENCH.

TREATY OF WORMS.

AFFAIRS IN THE NORTH.

BATTLE OF CAMPO-SANTO.

TRANSACTIONS OF THE BRITISH FLEET.

FRUITLESS ATTEMPTS UPON THE SPANISH SETTLEMENTS.

CHAPTER V.

PROJECTED INVASION OF GREAT BRITAIN.

A FRENCH SQUADRON SAILS UP THE ENGLISH CHANNEL.

The KINGDOM PUT IN A STATE OF DEFENCE.

THE DESIGN OF THE FRENCH DEFEATED.

BILL AGAINST THOSE WHO SHOULD CORRESPOND WITH THE PRETENDERï¿½S SONS.

NAVAL ENGAGEMENT OFF TOULON.

TREATY OF FRANCKFORT.

PROGRESS OF THE FRENCH KING IN THE NETHERLANDS

PRINCE CHARLES OF LORRAINE PASSES THE RHINE.

CAMPAIGN IN BAVARIA AND FLANDERS.

BATTLE OF CONI.

RETURN OF COMMODORE ANSON.

REVOLUTION IN THE BRITISH MINISTRY.

TREATY OF DRESDEN.ï¿½THE GRAND DUKE OF TUSCANY ELECTED EMPEROR.

THE ALLIES ARE DEFEATED.

THE KING OF SARDINIA IS ALMOST STRIPPED OF HIS DOMINIONS.

THE ENGLISH TAKE CAPE BRETON

PROJECT OF AN INSURRECTION IN GREAT BRITAIN.

THE ELDEST SON OF THE CHEVALIER DE ST. GEORGE LANDS IN SCOTLAND.

EFFORTS OF THE FRIENDS OF GOVERNMENT IN SCOTLAND.

PRECAUTIONS TAKEN IN ENGLAND.

THE REBELS RETREAT INTO SCOTLAND.

THE KINGï¿½S TROOPS UNDER HAWLEY ARE WORSTED AT FALKIEK.

THE DUKE OF CUMBERLAND COMMANDS THE ROYAL TROOPS.

THE REBELS UNDERTAKE THE SIEGE OF FORT-WILLIAM.

CHAPTER VI.

THE DUKE OF CUMBERLAND TAKES POSSESSION OF INVERNESS.

THE PRETENDER ESCAPES TO FRANCE.

CONVULSION IN THE MINISTRY.

TRIAL AND EXECUTION OF THE REBELS.

THE STATES-GENERAL ALARMED AT THE PROGRESS OF THE FRENCH.

COUNT SAXE SUBDUES ALL FLANDERS, BRABANT, AND HAINAULT.

THE FRENCH AND SPANIARDS ABANDON PIEDMONT AND THE MILANESE.

THE GENOESE EXPEL THE AUSTRIANS.

MADRAS TAKEN BY THE FRENCH.

NAVAL TRANSACTIONS in the WEST INDIES.

PARLIAMENT DISSOLVED.

THE FRENCH AND ALLIES TAKE THE FIELD IN FLANDERS.

THE PRINCE OF ORANGE ELECTED STADTHOLDER.

SIEGE OF BERGEN-OP-ZOOM.

THE CHEVALIER DE BELLEISLE SLAIN.

A FRENCH SQUADRON TAKEN.

ADMIRAL HAWKE OBTAINS ANOTHER VICTORY OVER THE FRENCH.

CONGRESS AT AIX-LA-CHAPELLE.

COMPLIANT TEMPER OF THE NEW PARLIAMENT.

PREPARATIONS FOR THE CAMPAIGN IN THE NETHERLANDS.

SIEGE OF MAESTRICHT. FORMS A CESSATION.

TRANSACTIONS IN THE EAST AND WEST INDIES.

CONCLUSION OF THE DEFINITIVE TREATY AT AIX-LA-CHAPELLE.

CHAPTER VII.

REFLECTIONS ON THE PEACE.

THE PRINCE OF WALESï¿½ ADHERENTS JOIN THE OPPOSITION.

CHARACTER OF THE MINISTRY.

SESSION OPENED.

EXORBITANT DEMAND OF THE EMPRESS-QUEEN OPPOSED.

VIOLENT CONTEST CONCERNING THE SEAMENï¿½S BILL.

BILL FOR LIMITING THE TERM OF A SOLDIERï¿½S SERVICE.

MEASURES TAKEN WITH RESPECT TO THE AFRICAN TRADE.

SCHEME FOR IMPROVING THE BRITISH FISHERY.

ATTEMPT TO OPEN THE COMMERCE TO HUDSONï¿½S BAY.

PLAN FOR MAINTAINING THE NAVY.

ELECTION OF A CHANCELLOR OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CAMBRIDGE.

SCHEME FOR A NEW SETTLEMENT.

TOWN OF HALIFAX FOUNDED.

FRENCH ATTEMPTS TO SETTLE THE ISLAND OF TOBAGO.

REJOICINGS FOR THE PEACE.

APPEARANCE OF A RUPTURE BETWEEN RUSSIA AND SWEDEN.

INTERPOSITION OF THE KING OF PRUSSIA.

CONDUCT OF DIFFERENT EUROPEAN POWERS.

INSOLENCE OF THE BARBARY CORSAIRS.

DISTURBANCES IN ENGLAND.

SESSION OPENED.

SCHEME FOR REDUCING THE INTEREST OF THE NATIONAL DEBT.

NEW MUTINY BILL.

BILL FOR ENCOURAGING the IMPORTATION OF IRON FROM AMERICA.

ERECTION OF THE BRITISH HERRING FISHERY.

NEW AFRICAN COMPANY.

WESTMINSTER ELECTION.

EARTHQUAKES IN LONDON.

PESTILENTIAL FEVER AT THE SESSION IN THE OLD BAILEY.

DISPUTES BETWEEN RUSSIA AND SWEDEN.

PLAN FOR ELECTING THE ARCHDUKE JOSEPH KING OF THE ROMANS.

DISPUTES WITH THE FRENCH ABOUT THE LIMITS OF NOVA SCOTIA.

TREATY WITH SPAIN.

SESSION OPENED.

DEATH AND CHARACTER OF THE PRINCE OF WALES.

SETTLEMENT OF A REGENCY IN CASE OF A MINOR SOVEREIGN.

GENERAL NATURALIZATION BILL.

CENSURE PASSED UPON A PAPER ENTITLED ï¿½CONSTITUTIONAL QUERIES.ï¿½

PROCEEDINGS OF THE COMMONS ON THE WESTMINSTER ELECTION.

MR. MURRAY SENT PRISONER TO NEWGATE.

SESSION CLOSED. STYLE ALTERED.

CHAPTER VIII.

DEATH OF THE QUEEN OF DENMARK AND PRINCE OF ORANGE.

MISUNDERSTANDING BETWEEN THE CZARINA AND KING OF PRUSSIA.

MEASURES FOR ELECTING A KING OF THE ROMANS.

DEATH OF THE KING OF SWEDEN.

SESSION OPENED.

PROCEEDINGS UPON A PAMPHLET, ENTITLED ï¿½THE CASE OF MR. MURRAY.ï¿½

LAW RELATING TO THE FORFEITED ESTATES IN SCOTLAND.

NEW CONSOLIDATION OF FUNDS.

TWO PORTS OPENED FOR THE IMPORTATION OF IRISH WOOL.

THE KING SETS OUT FOR HANOVER.

DISPUTE BETWEEN HANOVER AND PRUSSIA.

MISUNDERSTANDING BETWEEN THE COURTS OF LONDON AND BERLIN.

IMPROVEMENT OF POMERANIA.

TREATY WITH THE ELECTOR PALATINE.

SESSION OPENED.

GAME ACT.

ACT FOR PERFORMING QUARANTINE.

ACT FOR PREVENTING THE PLUNDERING OF SHIPWRECKED VESSELS.

BILL RELATING TO THE BOUNTY OF CORN EXPORTED.

TURKEY TRADE LAID OPEN.

NATURALIZATION OF THE JEWS.

MARRIAGE ACT.

DELIBERATIONS CONCERNING THE SUGAR COLONIES.

FATE OF THE REGISTER BILL.

SIR HANS SLOANEï¿½S MUSEUM PURCHASED BY PARLIAMENT.

EXECUTION OF DR. CAMERON.

TUMULTS IN DIFFERENT PARTS OF THE KINGDOM.

DISTURBANCES IN FRANCE.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE DIET RELATIVE TO EAST FRIEZELAND.

EXTRAORDINARY TREATY.

CONFERENCES WITH RESPECT TO NOVA SCOTIA BROKE UP.

DESCRIPTION OF NOVA SCOTIA.

CHAPTER IX.

AMBITIOUS SCHEMES OF THE FRENCH.

RISE AND CONDUCT OF THE OHIO COMPANY.

PERFIDY OF THE FRENCH.

MAJOR LAURENCE DEFEATS THE FRENCH NEUTRALS.

BRITISH AMBASSADOR AT PARIS AMUSED WITH GENERAL PROMISES.

SESSION OPENED.

REPEAL OF THE ACT FOR NATURALIZING JEWS.

MOTION FOE REPEALING A FORMER ACT FAVOURABLE TO THE JEWS.

EAST-INDIA MUTINY BILL.

SESSION CLOSED.

DEATH OF MR. PELHAM. CHANGE IN THE MINISTRY.

NEW PARLIAMENT ASSEMBLED AND PROROGUED.

DISPUTES IN THE IRISH PARLIAMENT.

TRANSACTIONS IN THE EAST INDIES.

ACCOUNT OF THE ENGLISH SETTLEMENTS.

DISPUTE ABOUT THE GOVERNMENT OF ARCOT.

MAHOMMED ALI KHAN SUPPORTED BY THE ENGLISH.

MR. CLIVE TAKES ARCOT.

MR. CLIVE REDUCES THREE FORTS, &c.

CHUNDA SAIB TAKEN AND PUT TO DEATH.

CONVENTION BETWEEN THE EAST INDIA COMPANIES OF ENGLAND AND FRANCE.

GENERAL VIEW OF THE BRITISH COLONIES IN NORTH AMERICA.

THE FRENCH SURPRISE LOGï¿½S TOWN.

CONFERENCE WITH THE INDIANS.

COLONEL WASHINGTON DEFEATED AND TAKEN BY THE FRENCH.

DIVISIONS AMONG THE BRITISH COLONIES.

HEREDITARY PRINCE OF HESSE-CASSEL PROFESSES THE CATHOLIC RELIGION.

PARLIAMENT OF PARIS RECALLED FROM EXILE.

AFFAIRS OF SPAIN AND PORTUGAL.

SESSION OPENED.

BILL IN BEHALF OF CHELSEA PENSIONERS.

MESSAGE FROM THE KING TO THE HOUSE OF COMMONS.

COURT OF VERSAILLES AMUSES THE ENGLISH MINISTRY.

SESSION CLOSED.

CHAPTER X.

PREPARATIONS FOR WAR.

EARL PAULETï¿½S MOTION.

REGENCY APPOINTED.

BOSCAWENï¿½S EXPEDITION.

FRENCH AMBASSADOR RECALLED.

AFFAIRS OF THE ENGLISH IN AMERICA.

BRADDOCKï¿½S UNFORTUNATE EXPEDITION.

EXPEDITION AGAINST CROWN POINT AND NIAGARA RESOLVED ON.

BRAVERY OF CAPTAIN Mï¿½GINNES.

DESCRIPTION OF FORT OSWEGO, &c

EXPEDITION AGAINST NIAGARA.

GENERAL SHIRLEY RETURNS TO ALBANY.

TREATY WITH THE LANDGRAVE OF HESSE-CASSEL.

NEWS OF THE CAPTURE OF THE ALCIDE AND LYS REACHES ENGLAND.

THE KING RETURNS FROM HANOVER, AND CONCLUDES A TREATY WITH RUSSIA.

DECLARATION OF THE FRENCH MINISTRY AT THE COURT OF VIENNA.

SPIRITED DECLARATION OF PRUSSIA.

THE FRENCH MAKE ANOTHER UNSUCCESSFUL ATTEMPT UPON THE COURT OF SPAIN.

THE IMPERIAL COURT REFUSES AUXILIARIES TO ENGLAND.

THE FRENCH TAKE THE BLANDFORD.

STATE OF THE ENGLISH AND FRENCH NAVIES.

SESSION OPENED.

REMARKABLE ADDRESSES OF BOTH HOUSES.

HIS MAJESTYï¿½S ANSWER.

ALTERATIONS IN THE MINISTRY.

EARTHQUAKE AT LISBON.

RELIEF VOTED TO THE PORTUGUESE.

MUTINY BILL, MARINE, AND MARINERSï¿½ ACTS CONTINUED.

ACT FOR RAISING A REGIMENT OF FOOT IN NORTH AMERICA.

MARITIME LAWS OF ENGLAND EXTENDED TO AMERICA.

QUIET OF IRELAND RESTORED.

TREATY CONCLUDED WITH PRUSSIA.

NEW MILITIA-BILL.

SESSION CLOSED.

CHAPTER XI.

LETTER FROM M. ROUILLE.

THE FRENCH THREATEN GREAT BRITAIN WITH AN INVASION.

REQUISITION OF SIX THOUSAND DUTCH TROOPS.

HESSIANS AND HANOVERIANS TRANSPORTED INTO ENGLAND.

FRENCH PREPARATIONS AT TOULON.

ADMIRAL BYNG SAILS FOR THE MEDITERRANEAN.

ADMIRAL BYNG ARRIVES AT GIBRALTAR.

HE ENGAGES M. DE LA GALISSONNIERE OFF MINORCA.

ADMIRAL BYNG SUPERSEDED AND SENT HOME PRISONER.

ACCOUNT OF THE SIEGE OF ST. PHILIPï¿½S FORT IN MINORCA.

PRECAUTIONS taken by GENERAL BLAKENEY.

SIR E. HAWKE SAILS TO MINORCA.

GALLANTRY OF FORTUNATUS WRIGHT.

GENERAL BLAKENEY CREATED A BARON.

MEASURES TAKEN FOR THE DEFENCE OF GREAT BRITAIN.

EARL OF LOUDON APPOINTED COMMANDER-IN-CHIEF IN AMERICA.

HIS BRITANNIC MAJESTYï¿½S DECLARATION OF WAR.

SUBSTANCE OF THE FRENCH KINGï¿½S DECLARATION.

ADDRESS OF THE CITY OF LONDON.

TRIAL OF GENERAL FOWKE.

AFFAIRS OF AMERICA.

EARL OF LOUDON ARRIVES AT NEW YORK.

OSWEGO REDUCED BY THE ENEMY.

FURTHER PROCEEDINGS IN AMERICA.

NAVAL OPERATIONS IN AMERICA.

TRANSACTIONS IN THE EAST INDIES.

CALCUTTA BESIEGED.

FATE OF THOSE WHO PERISHED IN THE DUNGEON AT CALCUTTA.

ADDITIONAL CRUELTIES EXERCISED ON MR. HOLWELL.

FORT GERIAH TAKEN BY ADMIRAL WATSON AND MR. CLIVE.

CHAPTER XII.

MOTIVES OF THE WAR IN GERMANY.

MEASURES TAKEN BY THE KING OF PRUSSIA AND ELECTOR OF HANOVER.

THE KING OF PRUSSIA DEMANDS AN EXPLANATION.

THE PRUSSIAN ARMY ENTERS SAXONY.

PRUSSIANS PENETRATE INTO BOHEMIA.

SAXON ARMY SURRENDERS.

KING OF POLANDï¿½S MEMORIAL TO THE STATES-GENERAL.

IMPERIAL DECREES PUBLISHED AGAINST THE KING OF PRUSSIA.

DECLARATION OF DIFFERENT POWERS.

HIS PRUSSIAN MAJESTYï¿½S ANSWER TO THE SAXON MEMORIAL.

DISPUTES BETWEEN THE PARLIAMENT OF PARIS AND THE CLERGY.

DEARTH OF CORN IN ENGLAND.

SESSION OPENED.

DEBATES ON THE ADDRESS.

BILL PASSED FOr PROHIBITING THE EXPORTATION OF CORN.

REFLECTIONS ON THE CONTINENTAL WAR.

MESSAGES FROM THE KING TO THE PARLIAMENT.

MEASURES TAKEN TO REMOVE THE SCARCITY OF CORN.

MILITIA BILL.

BILL FOR QUARTERING FOREIGN TROOPS, &c.

BILL FOR THE MORE SPEEDY RECRUITING THE LAND-FORCES AND MARINES, &c.

ACT FOR IMPORTING AMERICAN IRON DUTY FREE.

REGULATIONS WITH RESPECT TO THE IMPORTATION OF SILK.

INQUIRY INTO THE SCARCITY OF CORN.

INVESTIGATION OF THE LOSS OF MINORCA.

EXAMINATION of the AMERICAN CONTRACT.

INQUIRY INTO THE CONDUCT OF ADMIRAL KNOWLES, &c.

RESOLUTIONS concerning MILFORD-HAVEN.

SESSION CLOSED.

TRIAL OF ADMIRAL BYNG.

BILL TO RELEASE THE MEMBERS OF THE COURT-MARTIAL, &c

EXECUTION OF ADMIRAL BYNG.

REMARKS ON ADMIRAL BYNGï¿½S FATE.

CHAPTER XIII.

MR. PITT AND MR. LEGGE TAKEN INTO THE ADMINISTRATION.

COALITION OF PARTIES.

DESCENT ON THE COAST OF FRANCE MEDITATED.

COMMAND OF THE FLEET GIVEN TO SIR EDWARD HAWKE, &c.

ADMIRAL KNOWLES SENT TO TAKE AIX.

ATTACK AND SURRENDER OF AIX.

THE FLEET RETURNS TO SPITHEAD.

SIR JOHN MORDAUNT TRIED BY A COURT-MARTIAL.

FLEETS SENT TO THE EAST AND WEST INDIES.

RIOTS OCCASIONED BY THE HIGH PRICE OF CORN.

OPERATIONS IN AMERICA.

LORD LOUDONï¿½S CONDUCT IN AMERICA.

FORT WILLIAM-HENRY TAKEN by the FRENCH.

NAVAL TRANSACTIONS IN AMERICA.

STATE OF AFFAIRS IN THE EAST INDIES.

SEDUCTION OF CHANDERNAGORE.

COLONEL CLIVE DEFEATS THE SUBA AT PLAISSEY, &c.

ATTEMPTED ASSASSINATION OF THE KING OF FRANCE.

CHANGES IN THE FRENCH MINISTRY.

STATE OF THE CONFEDERACY.

SKIRMISHES BETWEEN THE PRUSSIANS AND AUSTRIANS.

NEUTRALITY OF THE EMPEROR, AND BEHAVIOUR OF THE DUTCH.

DECLARATION OF THE CZARINA AGAINST THE KING OF PRUSSIA.

KING OF PRUSSIA ENTERS BOHEMIA.

PRAGUE INVESTED.

COUNT DAUN COMMANDS THE AUSTRIANS.

KING OF PRUSSIA DEFEATED AT KOLIN.

PREPARATIONS FOR THE DEFENCE OF HANOVER.

SKIRMISHES WITH THE FRENCH.

DUKE OF CUMBERLAND PASSES THE WESER.

BATTLE OF HASTENBECK.

THE FRENCH TAKE POSSESSION OF HANOVER AND HESSE-CASSEL.

THE FRENCH REDUCE VERDEN and BREMEN.

CHAPTER XIV.

THE FRENCH ENTER THE PRUSSIAN DOMINIONS.

A RUSSIAN FLEET BLOCKS UP THE PRUSSIAN PORTS IN THE BALTIC.

ARMY OF THE EMPIRE RAISED.

THE AUSTRIANS TAKE GABEL.

THE PRINCE OF PRUSSIA LEAVES THE ARMY.

COMMUNICATION BETWEEN ENGLAND AND OSTEND BROKE OFF.

MARESCHAL LEHWALD ATTACKS THE RUSSIANS NEAR NORKITTEN.

HASTY RETREAT OF THE RUSSIANS OUT OF PRUSSIA.

FRENCH AND IMPERIALISTS TAKE GOTHA.

ACTION BETWEEN THE PRUSSIANS AND AUSTRIANS NEAR GOERLITZ.

THE FRENCH OBLIGE FERDINAND TO RETIRE.

BATTLE OF ROSBACH.

THE AUSTRIANS TAKE SCHWEIDNITZ.

MARESCHAL KEITH LAYS BOHEMIA UNDER CONTRIBUTION.

HOSTILITIES of the SWEDES in POMERANIA.

MEMORIAL PRESENTED TO THE DUTCH.

DISPUTES CONCERNING THE CONVENTION OF CLOSTER-SEVEN.

PROGRESS OF THE HANOVERIAN ARMY.

DEATH OF THE QUEEN OF POLAND, &c.

FATE OF CAPTAIN DEATH.

SESSION OPENED.

SECOND TREATY WITH PRUSSIA.

BILLS FOR THE ENCOURAGEMENT OF SEAMEN, &c.

ACT FOR ASCERTAINING THE QUALIFICATION OF VOTING.

BILL FOR MORE EFFECTUALLY MANNING THE NAVY.

HABEAS-CORPUS ACT AMENDED.

SCHEME IN FAVOUR OF THE FOUNDLING HOSPITAL.

PROCEEDINGS RELATIVE TO THE AFRICAN COMPANY.

SESSION CLOSED.

VIGOROUS PREPARATIONS FOR WAR, &c.

THE FRENCH EVACUATE EMBDEN.

ADMIRAL BRODERICKï¿½S SHIP BURNT.

DESCENT AT CANCALLE BAY.

EXPEDITION AGAINST CHERBOURG.

DESCENT AT ST. MALOES.

ENGLISH DEFEATED AT ST. CAS.

CLAMOURS OF THE DUTCH MERCHANTS, &c.

CHAPTER XV.

EXPEDITION AGAINST SENEGAL.

FORT LOUIS AND SENEGAL TAKEN.

EXPEDITION TO CAPE-BRETON.

LOUISBOURG TAKEN.

ATTEMPT UPON TICONDEROGA.

FORT FRONTENAC TAKEN AND DESTROYED BY THE ENGLISH.

BRIGADIER FORBES TAKES FORT DU QUESNE.

SHIPWRECK OF CAPTAIN BARTON.

GALLANT EXPLOIT OF CAPTAIN TYRREL.

TRANSACTIONS IN THE EAST INDIES.

TRANSACTIONS on the CONTINENT of EUROPE.

STATE of the ARMIES on the CONTINENT.

THE FRENCH KING CHANGES THE ADMINISTRATION OF HANOVER.

TREATY BETWEEN THE FRENCH KING AND THE DUKE OF BRUNSWICK.

DECREE OF THE AULIC COUNCIL.

BREMEN TAKEN AND RETAKEN.

THE FRENCH ABANDON HANOVER.

PRINCE FERDINAND DEFEATS THE FRENCH, &c.

PRINCE OF YSEMBOURG DEFEATED.

GENERAL IMHOFF DEFEATS M. DE CHEVERT.

GENERAL OBERG DEFEATED by the FRENCH.

DEATH OF THE DUKE OF MARLBOROUGH.

OPERATIONS OF THE KING OF PRUSSIA.

PROGRESS OF THE RUSSIANS.

THE PRUSSIANS DEFEAT THE RUSSIANS.

SUBURBS OF DRESDEN BURNT.

THE PRUSSIANS RAISE THE SIEGE OF NEISS, AND RELIEVE DRESDEN.

INHABITANTS OF SAXONY OPPRESSED.

PROGRESS OF THE SWEDES IN POMERANIA.

PRINCE CHARLES OF SAXONY ELECTED DUKE OF COURLAND.

THE KING OF ENGLANDï¿½S MEMORIAL.

DEATH OF POPE BENEDICT.

KING OF PORTUGAL ASSASSINATED.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE FRENCH MINISTRY.

CONDUCT OF THE KING OF DENMARK.

CONFERENCES AT THE HAGUE.

CHAPTER XVI.

TRIALS OF DRS. HENSEY AND SHEBBEARE

INSTITUTION OF THE MAGDALEN AND OTHER ASYLUMS.

SOCIETY FOR THE ENCOURAGEMENT OF ARTS.

NEW TREATY WITH THE KING OF PRUSSIA.

SUPPLIES GRANTED.

KINGï¿½S MESSAGE TO THE COMMONS.

BILLS RELATING TO THE DISTILLERY, &c.

REGULATIONS with RESPECT to PRIVATEERS.

NEW MILITIA LAWS.

ACT FOR THE RELIEF OF DEBTORS REVIVED.

BILLS FOR THE IMPORTATION OF IRISH BEEF AND TALLOW.

CASE OF THE INSOLVENT DEBTORS.

CASE OF CAPTAIN WALKER.

REMARKS ON THE BANKRUPT-LAWS.

INQUIRY INTO THE STATE OF THE POOR.

REGULATION OF WEIGHTS AND MEASURES.

THE FOUNDLING HOSPITAL.

PREPARATIONS FOR WAR.

DEATH OF THE PRINCESS OF ORANGE, &c.

EXAMPLES MADE OF PIRATES.

MURDER OF DANIEL CLARKE.

MAJORITY OF THE PRINCE OF WALES.

A NEW BRIDGE AT BLACKFRIARS.

FIRE IN CORNHILL.

METHOD CONTRIVED TO FIND OUT THE LONGITUDE.

INSTALLATION AT OXFORD.

CAPTURES MADE BY CRUISERS.

PRIZES TAKEN IN THE WEST INDIES.

ENGAGEMENT BETWEEN THE HERCULES AND THE FLORISSANT.

HAVRE-DE-GRACE BOMBARDED.

BOSCAWEN DEFEATS M. DE LA CLUE.

PREPARATIONS MADE BY THE FRENCH FOR INVADING ENGLAND.

ACCOUNT OF THUROT.

FRENCH FLEET SAILS FROM BREST.

ADMIRAL HAWKE DEFEATS M. DE CONFLANS.

THE IRISH PARLIAMENT.

LOYALTY OF THE IRISH CATHOLICS.

INSURRECTION IN DUBLIN.

ALARM OF A DESCENT IN SCOTLAND.

CHAPTER XVII.

STATE OF THE ISLAND OF MARTINIQUE.

EXPEDITION AGAINST THAT ISLAND.

ATTEMPT UPON ST. PIERRE.

DESCENT ON GUADALOUPE.

FORT-LOUIS REDUCED, &c.

ENGLISH FLEET SAILS TO DOMINIQUE.

GENERAL BARRINGTON TAKES GOSIER, &c.

ISLAND OF MARIGALANTE TAKEN.

TREATY WITH THE INDIANS.

PLAN OF THE CAMPAIGN.

GENERAL AMHERST EMBARKS ON LAKE CHAMPLAIN.

NIAGARA REDUCED.

INTRODUCTION TO THE EXPEDITION AGAINST QUEBEC.

GENERAL WOLFE LANDS ON THE ISLAND OF ORLEANS.

ENGLISH FLEET DAMAGED BY A STORM.

GENERAL WOLFE ENCAMPS NEAR THE FALLS OF THE RIVER MONTMORENCI.

BRIGADIER MURRAY DETACHED UP THE RIVER.

THE TROOPS LAND AT THE HEIGHTS OF ABRAHAM.

BATTLE OF QUEBEC.

QUEBEC TAKEN.

CHAPTER XVIII.

SIEGE OF MADRAS.

SUCCESS OF COLONEL FORDE.

SURAT TAKEN BY THE ENGLISH.

ADMIRAL POCOCKE DEFEATS MONSIEUR Dï¿½APCHE.

HOSTILITIES OF THE DUTCH.

COLONEL COOTE TAKES WANDEWASH.

COLONEL COOTE CONQUERS ARCOT.

STATE OF THE BELLIGERENT POWERS IN EUROPE.

FRANCKFORT SEIZED BY THE FRENCH.

PROGRESS OF THE HEREDITARY PRINCE OF BRUNSWICK.

PRINCE FERDINAND ATTACKS THE FRENCH.

RETREAT OF PRINCE FERDINAND.

ANIMOSITY BETWEEN PRINCE FERDINAND AND THE BRITISH COMMANDER.

THE FRENCH ENCAMP AT MINDEN.

DUKE DE BRISSAC ROUTED.

GENEEAL IMHOFF TAKES MUNSTER.

A BODY OF PRUSSIANS MAKE AN INCURSION INTO POLAND.

PRINCE HENRY PENETRATES into BOHEMIA.

GENERAL WEDEL DEFEATED BY THE RUSSIANS.

BATTLE OF CUNERSDORF.

ADVANTAGES GAINED BY THE PRUSSIANS IN SAXONY.

GENERAL FINCK SURROUNDED AND TAKEN.

DISASTER OF THE PRUSSIAN GENERAL DIERCKE.

CONCLUSION OF THE CAMPAIGN.

ARRET OF THE EVANGELICAL BODY AT RATISBON.

FRENCH MINISTRY STOP PAYMENT.

THE STATES-GENERAL SEND OVER DEPUTIES TO ENGLAND.

MEMORIAL PRESENTED TO THE STATES BY MAJOR-GENERAL YORKE.

A COUNTER-MEMORIAL PRESENTED BY THE FRENCH MINISTER.

DEATH OF THE KING OF SPAIN.

DON CARLOS SUCCEEDS TO THE KINGDOM OF SPAIN.

DETECTION AND PUNISHMENT OF THE CONSPIRATORS AT LISBON.

SESSION OPENED IN ENGLAND.

SUBSTANCE OF THE ADDRESSES.

PETITIONS RESPECTING THE PROHIBITION OF THE MALT DISTILLERY.

OPPOSITION TO THE BILL FOR PREVENTING THE EXCESSIVE USE OF SPIRITS.

ATTEMPT TO ESTABLISH A MILITIA IN SCOTLAND.

BILL FOR REMOVING THE POWDER MAGAZINE AT GREENWICH.

ACT FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE STREETS OF LONDON.

BILL RELATIVE TO THE SALE OF FISH, &c.

ACT FOR ASCERTAINING the QUALIFICATIONS OF MEMBERS OF PARLIAMENT.

ACT FOR CONSOLIDATING ANNUITIES GRANTED IN 1759.

BILL FOR SECURING MONIES FOR THE USE OF GREENWICH HOSPITAL.

ACT IN FAVOUR OF GEOEGE KEITH, &c.

SESSION CLOSED.

CHAPTER XIX.

DETECTION OF A MURDER.

CLAMOUR AGAINST LORD SACKVILLE.

HE DEMANDS A COURT-MARTIAL.

SENTENCE OF THE COURT-MARTIAL.

EARL FERRERS APPREHENDED.

TRIED BY THE HOUSE OF PEERS.

EARL FERRERS EXECUTED.

ASSASSINATION OF MR. MATTHEWS.

NEW BRIDGE BEGUN AT BLACKFRIARS.

REMARKABLE ADVENTURE OF FIVE IRISHMEN.

THE RAMILLIES MAN OF WAR WRECKED.

TREATY WITH THE CHEROKEES. HOSTILITIES RECOMMENCED.

FATE OF THE GARRISON AT FORT LOUDOUN.

BRITISH INTEREST ESTABLISHED ON THE OHIO.

THE FRENCH UNDERTAKE THE SIEGE OF QUEBEC.

QUEBEC BESIEGED.

THE ENEMIES SHIPPING DESTROYED.

GENERAL AMHERST REDUCES THE FRENCH FORT AT THE ISLE ROYALE.

FRENCH SHIPS DESTROYED, &c.

DEMOLITION OF LOUISBOURG.

INSURRECTION IN JAMAICA.

ACTION AT SEA OFF HISPANIOLA.

GALLANT BEHAVIOUR OF CAPTAINS Oï¿½BRIEN AND TAYLOR.

TRANSACTIONS IN THE EAST-INDIES.

ACHIEVEMENTS IN THE BAY OF QUIBERON.

ASTRONOMERS SENT TO THE EAST INDIES.

EARTHQUAKES IN SYRIA.

AFFAIRS OF PORTUGAL.

PATRIOTIC SCHEMES OF THE KING OF DENMARK.

MEMORIAL PRESENTED TO THE STATES-GENERAL.

STATE OF THE POWERS AT WAR.

DEATH OF THE LANDGRAVE OF HESSE-CASSEL.

OFFERS MADE BY THE NEUTRAL POWERS, &c.

SKIRMISHES IN WESTPHALIA.

SITUATION OF THE FRENCH ARMIES.

EXPLOIT OF COLONEL LUCKNER.

THE HEREDITARY PRINCE OF BRUNSWICK DEFEATED.

VICTORY OBTAINED BY THE ALLIES.

THE HEREDITARY PRINCE MARCHES TO THE LOWER RHINE.

ADVANTAGES GAINED by M. DE STAINVILLE.

THE ALLIES AND FRENCH GO INTO WINTER QUARTERS.

CHAPTER XX.

EXPLOIT OF THE SWEDES IN POMERANIA.

SKIRMISHES BETWEEN THE PRUSSIANS AND

POSITION OF THE ARMIES IN SAXONY AND SILESIA.

GEN. LAUDOHN DEFEATS GEN. FOUQUET, AND REDUCES GLATZ.

THE KING OF PRUSSIA MAKES AN UNSUCCESSFUL ATTEMPT UPON DRESDEN.

ACTION BETWEEN GENEEAL HULSEN AND THE IMPERIAL ARMY IN SAXONY.

SITUATION OF THE KING OF PRUSSIA.

THE RUSSIANS AND AUSTRIANS POSSESS THEMSELVES OF BERLIN.

KING OF PRUSSIA DEFEATS THE AUSTRIANS AT TORGAU.

DIETS of POLAND AND SWEDEN ASSEMBLED.

INTIMATION GIVEN TO THE STATES OF WESTPHALIA BY THE KING OF PRUSSIA.

THE KING OF POLANDï¿½S REMONSTRANCE.

REDUCTION OF PONDICHERRY.

PART OF THE BRITISH SQUADRON WRECKED IN A STORM.

DEATH and CHARACTER of KING GEORGE II.

RECAPITULATION OF THE PRINCIPAL EVENTS OF HIS REIGN.

ACCOUNT OF THE COMMERCE OF GREAT BRITAIN.

STATE OF RELIGION AND PHILOSOPHY.

FANATICISM.

METAPHYSICS AND MEDICINE.

MECHANICS.

GENIUS.

MUSIC.

PAINTING AND SCULPTURE.


NOTES






Illustrations


Frontispiece: Marleborough

Titlepage: Execution of Dudley

Map of India

Map of United States

Map of Scotland

Map of the Baltic

Dover

Battle of La Hogue

William III.

Map of Central America and West Indies

Map of the East Indian Islands

Map of Ireland

Map of the Eastern Hemisphere

Portrait of Queen Anne

Map of England and Wales

Map of Europe

Map of Australia

Map of British Colonies in North America

George I.

Culloden Moor

Bombay

Calcutta: the Esplanade

Portsmouth Harbour

Portrait of William Pitt

Death of General Wolfe

Forces and Fleets of Great Britain








End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Index of the Project Gutenberg Works
of Tobias Smollett, by Tobias Smollett

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK 58572 ***
